OK WE ARE BACK IN SESSION.
I'D LIKE TO RECOGNIZE
COMMISSIONER CLARK IS JOINING
IN ATTENDANCE AND NOW WE'RE
MOVING ON TO THE MOTION TO
APPROVE THE AGENDA TO HAVE
SOMEONE TO MAKE A MOTION
COMMISSIONER SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER MILLS.
IS THERE ANY DISCUSSION ON THE
MOTION?
>> SEE, NONE OF THOSE IN FAVOR
PLEASE SAY I HAVE A NEW POST
MOTION CARRIES I HAVE A MOTION
TO APPROVE THE MINUTES OF JUNE
SIX TWENTY TWENTY THREE MOVE BY
COMMISSIONER MILLS COMSEC
SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER ABRAMS
ANY DISCUSSION OF THE MINUTES
ALL THOSE IN FAVOR OF THE
MOTION PLEASE SAY ANY POST
MOTION CARRIES.
NEXT UP OUR REPORT TO THE
PLANNING COMMISSION.
>> FIRST WE WILL START WITH
CITY COUNCIL COUNCILMAN REDISH.
>> DO YOU HAVE ANYTHING TO
REPORT?
I AM VERY PLEASED TO REPORT
THAT THE SEVEN TWENTY ONE S
FOREST PD PASSED UNANIMOUSLY ON
SECOND READING.
>> I'M ALSO PLEASED TO REPORT
THAT THE AMENDMENT TO THE
CONDITIONAL ZONING FOR PICKMAN
ON BROADWAY WENT JUST FINE ON
FIRST READING WHICH YOU WOULD
EXPECT.
AND THEN ALSO AN INTERESTING
THING THAT WE DID THROUGH THE
CONSENT AGENDA WAS TO REMOVE
RACIAL RESTRICTIONS FROM THE
DEED FOR ALLMENDINGER PARK AND
I MEAN THERE WERE SOME OTHER
GREAT THINGS ON THAT AGENDA BUT
NOTHING OF SPECIFIC INTEREST TO
THE LAND USE DOMAIN.
>> THANK YOU FOR THAT
MEXICALI
.
>> DO YOU HAVE ANYTHING TO
REPORT?
YES, WITHOUT OBJECTION.
STAFF RECOMMEND CANCELING THE
JULY 5TH MEETING.
UM, THIS IS DUE TO THE
PROXIMITY TO THE JULY 4TH
HOLIDAY AS WELL.
IS THERE NO PETITIONS READY TO
ACT ON AND WE WOULD RECOMMEND
TO CONSOLIDATE, UH,
ADMINISTRATIVE ITEMS SUCH AS
YOUR ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING TO
THE FOLLOWING REGULAR SESSION
AND THAT IS AT THE DISCRETION
OF THE CHAIR WOULD SO WE DON'T
NEED TO MOVE A MOTION FOR THAT.
>> I CAN JUST CALL JUST WITHOUT
OBJECTION WE WILL PROCEED TO
CANCEL ANY OBJECTION.
NO, WE PROCEED TO CANCEL.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
SECONDLY, THE ORDINANCE
PROVISIONS COMMITTEE UH AT THE
UM YOUR NEXT ORDINANCE
REVISIONS COMMITTEE WE WILL BE
FOCUSING ON AN UPDATE REQUEST
BY THE CITY'S TRANSPORTATION
TEAM TO THE UDC.
SO PLEASE LOOK FOR THAT.
AND IF YOU ARE NOT ON THE ORSI
BUT ARE CURIOUS IN THE
DISCUSSION, PLEASE TUNE IN.
AND THEN THERE WAS A QUESTION
AT A RECENT PLANNING COMMISSION
MEETING ABOUT THE POSSIBILITY
OF ALTERNATE MEMBER
APPOINTMENTS.
THERE WAS A LATE ADD TO YOUR
PACKET AND THERE IS ALSO A
PRINTOUT IN FRONT OF YOU WITH A
MEMORANDUM FROM PLANNING
MANAGER LEINERT.
IN SHORT, THERE IS NOT A BASIS
IN CITY LAW TO ALLOW ULTRANET.
>> IT IS SPECIFICALLY CALLED
ALLOWED FOR IN THE MICHIGAN
ZONING ENABLING ACT BUT FOR
SOME REASON IT DOES NOT HAVE A
COMPANION OR EQUIVALENT
PROVISION IN THE PLANNING ACT.
>> SO THE PROPOSAL BY THE
PLANNING MANAGER IS THAT IF THE
PRIMARY BASIS FOR THE REQUEST
RELATED TO ABSENCES AND
RECUSALS UM THERE COULD BE A
YOU COULD SET IN MOTION A
REQUEST TO UPDATE CITY CODE .
THIS IS NOT UDC AMENDMENT.
THIS WOULD ACTUALLY REQUIRE A
MODIFICATION OF TITLE ONE
CHAPTER EIGHT OF CITY CODE TO
DO SOMETHING FOR EXAMPLE, SUCH
AS INDICATE A DIFFERENT
STANDARD THAN SIX MEMBERS LIKE
A MAJORITY OF MEMBERS PRESENT
OR SOME OTHER TO BE DETERMINED
MEASURE.
>> THANK YOU.
>> OK, DO ANY OTHER PLANNING
COMMISSION OFFICERS OR
COMMITTEE LIAISON'S HAVE
ANYTHING TO REPORT?
NO.
>> OK WE'LL MOVE ON TO PUBLIC
COMMENT.
THIS IS AN OPTION FOR PERSONS
TO SPEAK UP TO THREE MINUTES ON
AN ISSUE THAT IS NOT LISTED AS
A PUBLIC HEARING ON THIS AGENDA
WE WILL FIRST CALL INDIVIDUALS
PRESENT TO ADDRESS THE
COMMISSION AND THEN REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK DURING
THE PUBLIC HEARING REMOTELY
POLESTAR NINE LISTENING BY
PHONE USE THE RAISED HAND
FEATURE IF YOU MEAN THROUGH THE
WEB LINK FOR PHONE ACCESS CALL
EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT FIVE
THREE FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN AND
ENTER MEETING ID NINE SEVEN
SEVEN SIX SIX THREE FOUR ONE
TWO TWO SIX CITIES CALLERS WHO
HAVE RAISED THEIR HAND USING
THE LAST THREE DIGITS THE PHONE
NUMBER OR BY NAME IF AVAILABLE
FOR THOSE ACCESSING THROUGH THE
WEB LINK YOU WILL HEAR AN
AUTOMATED ANNOUNCEMENT THAT THE
HOST IS ALLOWING YOU TO SPEAK
WHEN SPEAKING PLEASE MOVE TO A
QUIET AREA AND VIEW ANY
TELEVISION OR BACKGROUND
SOUNDS.
WE MAY HEAR YOU CLEARLY FOR
EITHER METHOD OR PARTICIPATION.
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS THE COMMENTS DURING OUR
TECHNICAL DIFFICULTIES DELAY.
MY UNDERSTANDING IS THAT
ANYBODY CALLING IN REMOTELY MAY
HAVE DIFFICULTY HEARING OTHER
REMOTE COMMENTS.
>> OH WE ENSURE WITHIN THE ROOM
WE CAN HEAR ALL OF THOSE
DIGITAL COMMENTS BUT I JUST
WANT SOME YOU KNOW ANYBODY
LISTENING IN THAT THERE MIGHT
BE TECHNICAL DIFFICULTIES THAT
YOU MAY HAVE A HARD TIME
HEARING OTHER PUBLIC COMMENTS.
>> SO STARTING WITH THAT, IS
THERE ANYONE PRESENT THAT WOULD
LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS TIME?
SEE NO ONE OH, IS THERE ANY ONE
THAT WOULD LIKE TO ADDRESS THE
COMMISSION REMOTELY COLOR
ENDING IN FIVE THREE FOUR YOU
PERMISSION TO ADDRESS THE
COMMISSION?
I WOULD LIKE MORE IN OUR CHAT
WAS ASKED ABOUT THE COUNCIL
DECISION LASSOS FOR AND THEY
HAVE INCLUDED IN FAVOR WITH
THAT HAVE A FEW GO ON THIS
FURTHER SO WE'RE GOING TO HAVE
MY DEALING WITH THIS PROJECT
FROM THE ADDRESS RIGHT NOW AT
THAT LOCATION MEETING WITH THE
FOR
SO WE
ABOUT THAT MEETING OR
MY HOME THE THAT WE HAVE AND
WILL BE
MORE AND MORE NOT MORE
OF THE THE MORE AND THE
DISCRETIONARY WHICH YOU SHOULD
KNOW WHEN YOU WANT WITH OTHER
AGAIN WE WILL HAVE GOTTEN BY AT
ABOUT MEMBERS AND SO WE ARE
RUNNING FOR A WITNESS ACCOUNT
BUT HERE WE HAVE THE SESSION
THERE IS WHERE WE'RE AT AND
ONE
IN
.
THANK YOU.
DO YOU KNOW THE COLORS OR THE
THIS TIME AND I NEGLECTED TO
HIT RECORD SO THERE WON'T BE A
SMALL NOISE RECORDING IN
PROGRESS.
OK AND WITH THAT WE'RE GOING TO
MOVE TO PUBLIC HANDS FOR NEXT
BUSINESS WHICH I BELIEVE WE
JUST CANCELED.
THAT'S CORRECT.
PROBABLY SCHEDULE OK, THANK
YOU.
AND SO I WILL MOVE ON TO
UNFINISHED BUSINESS AND AT THIS
TIME I WILL BE RECUSING MYSELF
AND OFF THE CHAIR TO
COMMISSIONER EVANS
.
OK, SO TO INTRODUCE THE
PETITION WE ARE AND THIS IS A
CONTINUED PUBLIC HEARING FOR 16
ONE SOUTH STATE STREET.
THIS IS THE SOUTH TOWN REZONING
PLAN AND STREET VACATION
PROJECT WITH THREE PETITIONS TO
REDEVELOP THE BLOCK BOUNDED BY
SOUTH STATE STREET LIGHT STREET
HENRY STREET AND STIMSON'S
STREET.
THERE ARE THREE PARTS OF THIS
PETITION ONE TO REZONE A BLOCK
OF TEN PARCELS FROM OUR FORESE
TO SEE WHAT THEY ARE ZONING
WITH CONDITIONS TO ANOTHER SITE
PLAN FOR CITY COUNCIL APPROVAL
TO CONSTRUCT A TWO HUNDRED AND
TWENTY THOUSAND SQUARE FOOT
MIXED USE BUILDING AND THREE A
PETITION TO VACATE THE PUBLIC
ALLEY IN THE BLOCK.
THE STAFF RECOMMENDATION IS
APPROVAL SO WE'LL BEGIN WITH
OUR PRESENTATION FROM THE
PETITIONER.
THANK YOU COMMISSIONER APRON'S
I'M ADAM SMITH.
I'M THE DIRECTOR OF DESIGN FOR
THE NEXT YEAR HERE IN ANN
ARBOR.
I WITH US OUR STUDIO DIRECTOR
SIDNEY PHILIPPOS AND ALSO THE
OWNERS OF THE PROJECT MARGIN
HARRY POTTER ARE HERE AS WELL.
OUR CIVIL ENGINEER CAN'T MAKE
IT TONIGHT BECAUSE HIS WIFE IS
CURRENTLY HAVING A BABY SO I
BRANDON AT THE HOSPITAL HOPE
EVERYTHING'S GOING WELL WASHING
IF YOU'RE WATCHING I DON'T KNOW
IF YOU ARE WATCHING.
OK, SO SINCE THE LAST TIME THIS
IS CONTINUING SINCE THE LAST
TIME WE PRESENTED WE MADE SOME
CHANGES TO THE CONDITIONS AND
THE THREE THINGS THAT WE'RE
DOING, THE RESULTING TO SEE
WHEN THEY ARE THE VACATION AND
THE FLIGHT PLAN.
SO THE CHANGED CONDITIONS WE
REMOVED THE OPEN BASIC
CONDITION AND REPLACED IT WITH
MAKING IT PRIMARILY RESIDENTIAL
WITH A MAX OF THIRTY PERCENT
SHORT TERM RENTALS.
AND THEN WE ALSO WE ADDED NO
GAS CAN, NO GAS CONNECTION
EXCEPT FOR EMERGENCY
BACKUP SO
THERE'LL BE NO GAS CONNECTION
TO THE SITE WITH THE REZONING
AND WE'VE PROPOSED THAT THERE'S
NO GAS CONNECTION AT ALL IF
WE'RE USING DIFFERENT TYPE
OF FUEL FOR EMERGENCY
GENERATOR.
WE ALSO RESOLVED ALL THE
OUTSTANDING STAFF COMMENTS AND
HAD THE ZIBA VARIANCE APPROVED
IN THAT TIME AS WELL.
SO DO A QUICK REFRESHER OF WHAT
THE PROJECT IS STILL IN THE
SAME SPOT.
FIRST OFF, IT'S LOCATED AT THE
CENTER OF A FOUR UNIQUE
QUADRANTS OF OF ANN ARBOR WHERE
YOU HAVE THE SOUTH STATE
INDUSTRIAL COMMERCIAL WITH FOOD
AND ENTERTAINMENT THEREFORE A
CAMPUS RESIDENTIAL
NEIGHBORHOODS AND THE CAMPUS
DISTRICT LOOKING TO THE NORTH.
THE CONTEXT THERE IS IT'S NEAR
THE CAMPUS BUSINESS DISTRICT
ONLY A FIVE MINUTE BIKE RIDE IN
TWENTY MINUTE WALK UP SOUTH
STATE STREET ALONG WITH
MULTIPLE OTHER FACILITIES THE
CAMPUS AND THEN TO THE SOUTH WE
HAVE THE SOUTH STATE STREET
AREA PLAN AND THE LAND IS THE
AREA FIVE OF THE TWENTY NINE
NEW PLAN LOCATED IN THESE TWO
HIGHLIGHTED AREAS WHICH CALL
FOR HAVING MIXED USE ALONG THIS
CORRIDOR AND ENCOURAGING
MULTIMODAL TRANSPORTATION,
ENCOURAGING RESIDENTIAL AND
COMMERCIAL USAGE ALONG THE
STIMPSON STREET IN SOUTH SORP
INDUSTRIAL COMMERCIAL AREA
THAT'S FROM THE 2009 LAND AND
THEN ALSO THE STATE STREET
CORRIDOR AND PROMOTE MIXED USE
LAND USES RESIDENTIAL AND
OFFICE ALONG THE CORRIDOR ONE
LOCATED JUST THE SOUTH
STATE STREET AROUND BRIGHTWOOD
MORE SO LOOKING AT THE REZONING
WHAT WE'VE CHOSEN TO USE THE C
WHEN THEY ARE BECAUSE IT'S
COMPATIBLE WITH THE SURROUNDING
PARCELS THAT INCLUDES SEVERAL
ZONING DISTRICTS FROM HIGH
DENSITY RESIDENTIAL TWO TO
MIXED USE TO THE EAST IS OUR
FORESEE.
THE NORTH IS A PD OF MULTIPLE
MULTIPLE FAMILY AFFORDABLE
RESIDENTIAL OUR FIRST YEAR ON
THAT AS WELL AND THEN
COMMERCIAL TO THE SOUTH.
SO MOST OF IS DENSER DENSER
AREA AND THIS DISTRICT OF SEVEN
IS DESCRIBED AS ENCOURAGE THE
ORDERLY CLUSTERING OF PLACEMENT
OF HIGH DENSITY RESIDENTIAL AND
COMMERCIAL DEVELOPMENT NEAR THE
CAMPUS DISTRICT WHICH IT IS SO
TO REVIEW THE CONDITIONS THAT
WE WERE PROPOSING WITH THIS WE
PROPOSED A MAP HEIGHT OF ONE
HUNDRED ON THIS AND SEE WHEN
THEY ARE MASS PARKING ON POINT
TO FIVE SPACES PER DWELLING
UNIT PRINCIPAL USE MULTIFAMILY
RESIDENTIAL AND A MAXIMUM
OF THIRTY PERCENT OF THAT WOULD
COULD BE SHORT TERM RENTALS AND
THEN NO NATURAL GAS CONNECTIONS
EXCEPT FOR EMERGENCY BACKUP
COMPARING TO OTHER RESIDENTIAL
MANY IS OUT THERE IN THE DC.
WE TOOK A LOOK AT THE HEIGHTS
AND WHAT AND ALSO HOW MANY
OF OUR UNITS YOU COULD DO
WITHIN THAT.
SO THIS JUST TO ILLUSTRATE
WHERE THE CONDITIONS LIE AND
SEE WHAT THEY ARE FOR FOR THIS
PROJECT AND HOW IT COMPARES TO,
YOU KNOW, WHAT WE HEAR FROM THE
COMMUNITY THAT WE USED TO HAVE
HOUSING TO GET TO OUR PROPOSED
216 UNITS.
THIS IS THE BEST ZONING FOR
THAT.
THERE'S ALSO THE ELEVATION JUST
WANT TO CLARIFY WHETHER THAT'S
ON THE SITE PLAN IN THE MIDDLE
ON THE NORTH SIDE.
THIS WOULD BE THIS IS WHAT
WE'RE COUNTING IN THE AREA ARE
CALCULATION OF THE OVERALL SITE
AND THIS BREAKS DOWN WHAT ARE
IS SINCE THERE'S A FEW THINGS
THAT ARE ADDED ONTO IT AND
EXCLUDED FROM IT SO THAT IT
DOESN'T SQUARE FEET
OF ADDITIONAL PREMIUM FROM THE
PLAZA WE'VE DESIGNED AROUND THE
BUILDING AND THEN WE HAVE A
ZIBA VARIANCE FOR THAT GRADE
PARKING AT GRADE ENCLOSED
PARKING ONLY AT GRADE AND SO
THAT YOU CAN SEE IN BLUE IS THE
IS HOW MUCH WE'RE ACTUALLY
USING.
>> SO WE'RE AT WE'RE ALLOWED TO
BE AT THREE ELEVEN PERCENT IF
THEY ARE AND THIS IS PROPOSED
THAT THREE HUNDRED AND EIGHT
PERCENT FOR THE PROJECT
EXISTING THIRTY EIGHT DWELLING
UNITS ON THIS SITE IN TEN
NONCONFORMING OUR FORESE
STRUCTURES AND YOU CAN SEE AS
IT CHANGES THEIR FITS IN WITH
THE THE SCALE OF THE
NEIGHBORHOOD QUITE WELL WITH
WITH MORE DENSITY AND IT'S ALSO
LOCATED ALONG REALLY ROBUST BUT
REALLY ROBUST TRANSIT LINES
FROM THE RIDE AND ALONG WITH
PLANS FOR ALL AGES AND
ABILITIES NETWORKS ALONG SOUTH
STATE STREET AND THE TREE LINED
TRAILER ALONG THE RAILROAD IN
THE FUTURE
.
SO GETTING INTO THE SITE PLAN
WE'RE WORKING THIS THIS AREA
THIS IS A VIEW FROM WHAT WOULD
BE THE THE PARKING LOT
OF SALVATION ARMY.
SO LOOKING FOR THIS OUT THIS IS
THE TALLEST SIDE OF THE
BUILDING ALONG STATE STREET.
IT'S REALLY OPEN AND MEANT TO
BE A GOOD NEIGHBOR IN THAT
AREA.
AND WHEN WE GET INTO ITS PLACE
ON THE SIDE, WE CAN GET INTO
MORE DETAIL ON THIS.
BUT WE'RE USING AN EXCEPTION IN
THE ZONING TO HAVE IT SET BACK
ON ONE SIDE WE NEED A TEN FOOT
SET BACKS EVERYWHERE ELSE.
NO PARKING IS REQUIRED BUT
THROUGH HEARING FROM THE
COMMUNITY AND KNOWING THERE'S
SOME PARKING CONSTRAINTS IN
THIS AREA WE PROVIDED THIS MUCH
PARKING SO IT'S NECESSARY TO
REFLECT THE FEEDBACK FROM THE
NEIGHBORS AND THE APPROVED IT
JUST FOR GROUND FLOOR AND
NOTHING NOTHING ABOVE FIFTY
THREE SPOTS CAPABLE LIKE
PARKING IS SIMILAR TO THE LAST
TIME SAME AMOUNT OF SPACE IS
OUT OF THE CLASS.
BIKES ARE ON THE GROUND FLOOR.
THEY'RE NOT WE'RE NOT COUNTING
ONES IN UNITS.
EVERYTHING IS ACCESSIBLE.
THEY'RE THIS IS THE PART OF THE
ZIB APPROVAL WHERE WE HAD THE
THE ISSUE.
WE WANT TO ILLUSTRATE WHAT'S
GOING ON UNDERNEATH THE
BUILDING.
THE PARKING IS WE CAN PUSH THE
PARKING BELOW GRADE BECAUSE WE
HAD THE STORMWATER DETENTION
BELOW THE PARKING AND IF WE
PUSH THAT DOWN INTO THE WATER
TABLE IT WOULD BE BRINGING
WATER UP OUT OF THE WATER TABLE
AND PUTTING INTO THE CITY'S
STORMWATER SYSTEM WHICH IS NOT
A BEST PRACTICE.
SO THIS IS THE SPACE WHERE IT
COULD BE IS UNDERNEATH
UNDERNEATH THE BUILDING.
>> SO YOU CAN SEE ALSO WE HAVE
GEOTHERMAL WELLS.
THESE ARE THE BLUE DOTS IN
HERE.
SIXTY TWO OF THEM PLANNED.
THEY GO FOUR HUNDRED FEET DEEP
AND GREEN ROADS.
I HAVE TO ALSO ACCESS THESE
AREAS.
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS I CAN ADD
LATER OUTDOOR SPACES THE SAME
WE HAVE THIS SECOND LEVEL
OUTDOOR GARDEN SPACE THAT'S
ACCESSIBLE TO ALL PUBLICLY
ACCESSIBLE ACCESSIBLE FROM
STAIRWAYS AND AND ELEVATOR ON
THE RIGHT STREET SIDE.
>> I JUST WANT TO NOTE THAT YOU
HAVE UH, JUST A LITTLE OVER A
MINUTE LEFT IN YOUR
PRESENTATION.
>> THANK YOU.
UM, SUSTAINABILITY WISE
EVERYTHING IS STILL THE SAME.
IT'S A FULLY ELECTRIFIED
BUILDING.
WE HAVE SOLAR SOLAR ON THE ROOF
,GREEN ROOFS AROUND OUR
BUILDING WITH MASS TIMBER AS A
THOMS MASS TIMBER BUILDING
WHERE WE'VE BEEN WORKING WITH
THE BUILDING DEPARTMENT TO TO
WORK OUT VARIANCES TO DO THAT.
WE'VE BEEN WORKING CLOSELY WITH
THEM.
THEY'VE BEEN VERY HELPFUL.
WELL, INSULATION IS MORE THAN
DOUBLE THE REQUIRED AMOUNT
THAT'S RATINGS ON WINDOWS ARE
HIGHER BECAUSE OF THE TRAINING
THAT'S VERY CLOSE BY AND IT'S
ALSO YOU KNOW, SINCE IT IS
BUILT WITH MODULAR
CONSTRUCTION, WE'RE AIMING FOR
A QUICKER AND QUIETER
CONSTRUCTION THAN TYPICAL UM
ONE COMPARISON AND END POINT
ABOUT THE MASS TIMBER IS HOW
MUCH CARBON IT SEQUESTERS.
THIS CHART HERE SHOWS THAT IT
WOULD BE THE EMBODIMENT OF THE
BUILDING IS ALREADY LESS THAN
TWO AND A HALF TO TWO POINT TWO
TIMES TYPICAL CONCRETE BUILDING
WOULD BE AND THEN ALMOST A
THIRD OF THAT WOULD BE
SEQUESTERED IN THE ACTUAL WOOD
OF THE BUILDING.
UM, I HAVE MULTIPLE PLANS
OF ALL THE LEVELS THE UNIT
PLANS AND THE REST OF THE
SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS AS WELL AS
FOR ANY OTHER CLARIFICATION
QUESTIONS SO THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
UM NOW HERE'S STAFF
PRESENTATION FROM ALEXIS DELIO.
>> THANKS.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
UM WELL THE TABLES ARE REVERSED
.
I FEEL THAT ADAM DID A VERY
GOOD JOB ON PRESENTING WHAT HAS
CHANGED I'LL JUST GIVE A VERY
BRIEF RECAP UM AND MAYBE HIT A
POINT OR TWO THAT WERE NOT NOT
COVERED AS WELL.
SO THIS IS THE SOUTHTOWN
PROJECT.
IT HAS THREE PARTITIONS.
>> THERE ARE THREE MOTIONS IN
THE STAFF REPORT.
I DID CHANGE THE ORDER OF THE
MOTIONS FROM THE PREVIOUS
MEETING BUT THE MOTIONS ARE
LARGELY THE SAME.
THE MOTION FOR THE REZONING HAS
BEEN UPDATED TO REFLECT THE
CHANGED CONDITIONS THAT HAVE
BEEN OFFERED.
>> THERE IS ALSO THE DOCUMENT
IN THE PACKET THE FOR THE
CONDITIONAL ZONING STATEMENT
OF CONDITIONS WHICH NEED A
BETTER NAME UM STAFF IS
RECOMMENDING APPROVAL OF ALL
THREE OF ALL THREE AS MENTIONED
I WILL NOT GO INTO IT.
THE OFFER OF CONDITIONS HAS
CHANGED.
I FEEL FAIRLY WELL ARTICULATED
BUT I'M HAPPY TO ANSWER ANY
FOLLOW UP QUESTIONS.
AS NOTED, THE ZONING BOARD
OF APPEALS ON MAY 24TH GRANTED
A VARIANCE TO EXCLUDE THE FLOOR
AREA USED FOR AT GRADE PARKING
FROM THE FAA.
OUR CALCULATION FOR THE
SOUTHTOWN IF ONE WAS TO
CALCULATE TO THE FLOOR AREA
OF THIS BUILDING IT IS NOT
CHANGED BUT THE FARC WHICH IS
THE FLOOR AREA RATIO THAT WILL
USE A DIFFERENT BASE NUMBER AND
THAT BASE NUMBER WILL NOT
INCLUDE THE SPACE THE FLOOR
AREA USED FOR THE AT GRADE
PARKING SO IT MEETS THE
REQUIREMENT OF THE CI ONE A OUR
DISTRICT INCLUDING THE USE
OF THE OR THE BONUS FROM THE
PREMIUMS THAT IT EARNED.
SO IT IT COMPLIES WITH THE
ZONING DISTRICT FOR WHICH IT
HAS REQUESTED.
I'VE ALSO GONE THROUGH IN THE
STAFF REPORT WHAT THE
OUTSTANDING COMMENTS WERE AND
HOW THEY WERE ADDRESSED AT THE
PREVIOUS PUBLIC HEARING AND
MEETING THE TRANSPORTATION
STAFF HAD NOT COMPLETED THEIR
REVIEW OF THE MULTIMODAL
TRANSPORTATION IMPACT ANALYSIS
M TIAA VERY HIGH LEVEL THAT
MULTIMODAL TRANSPORTATION
IMPACT ANALYSIS CONCLUDED THAT
THERE ARE ACCEPTABLE OPERATIONS
FOR ALL MODES OF TRAVEL.
IT HAS A FEW RECOMMENDATIONS.
IT RECOMMENDED SOME THINGS FOR
A SAFETY REVIEW INCLUDING
PROVIDING A PROTECTED BIKE LANE
PAINTING BIKE BOXES AND SO
FORTH.
IT ALSO RECOMMENDED CONVERTING
HENRY STREET BETWEEN WHITE AND
SOUTH STATE TO TO OPERATIONS
REVISING THE ON STREET PARKING
ON HENRY STREET TO ACCOMMODATE
THE PROPOSED USES SORT
OF SPECIFICALLY DAY CARE IF ONE
IS OPENED AND PROVIDING A HIGH
VISIBILITY CROSSWALK ACROSS
STIMPSON AT WHITE.
AND THEN TO RECAP OUR
RECOMMENDATIONS FOR APPROVAL
STAFF RECOMMENDS THAT THE
REZONING TO SEE ONE IS LASHA BE
APPROVED AND THE CONDITIONS BE
ACCEPTED AND WE RECOMMEND
APPROVAL OF THE STREET VACATION
AND THE SITE PLAN BOTH MEET THE
STANDARDS OF APPROVAL FOR THOSE
TYPES OF PROJECTS.
I THINK MYSELF AND ADAM
PROBABLY HERE TO ANSWER ANY
ADDITIONAL QUESTIONS BUT I
TURNED OVER TO YOU AND THE
PUBLIC HEARING THANK YOU SO I
WILL MOVE TO THE PUBLIC
HEARING.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK FOR A THREE
MINUTES ABOUT THE PROPOSED
PETITION.
WE'LL CALL FIRST ON INDIVIDUALS
PRESENT TO ADDRESS THE
COMMISSION, THEN REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK DURING
THIS PUBLIC HEARING REMOTELY
PRESTER NINE LISTENING BY PHONE
OR USE THE RAISED HAND FEATURE
IF VIEWING THE WEBLINK FOR
PHONE ACCESS CALL EIGHT SEVEN
SEVEN EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TO
FOUR SEVEN AND END OUR MEETING
IN NINE SEVEN SEVEN SIX SIX
THREE FOUR ONE TWO TWO SIX.
CITY STAFF WILL SELECT CALLERS
WHO HAVE RAISED THEIR HAND
USING THE LAST THREE DIGITS
OF THEIR PHONE NUMBER OR BY
NAME IF AVAILABLE FOR THOSE
ACCESSING THE WEB LINK YOU HEAR
AN AUTOMATED ANNOUNCEMENT THAT
THE HOST IS ALLOWING YOU TO
SPEAK WHEN SPEAKING PLEASE MOVE
TO A QUIET AREA.
ANY TELEVISION OR BACKGROUND
SOUND SO WE MAY HEAR YOU
CLEARLY FOR EITHER METHOD
OF PARTICIPATION.
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
OF YOUR COMMENTS.
AND JUST AS A REMINDER, AS
COMMISSIONER SAUV MENTIONED
EARLIER, WE'RE HAVING A
TECHNICAL DIFFICULTY WITH ZOOME
WHERE REMOTE PARTICIPANTS WE
CAN HEAR YOU IN THE CHAMBER BUT
YOU MAY NOT BE ABLE TO HEAR
OTHER REMOTE PARTICIPANT WHEN
THEY SPEAK.
IS THERE ANYBODY PRESENT THAT
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
TIME PACING NO ONE.
IS THERE ANYONE THAT WOULD LIKE
TO ADDRESS THE COMMISSION
REMOTELY?
THERE ARE NO HANDS RAISED.
ALL RIGHT THEN I WILL MOVE TO
READ THE PROPOSED MOTION AND
THERE ARE THREE SO THE FIRST
ONE IN OUR CITY PLANNING
COMMISSION HEREBY RECOMMENDS
THAT THE MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
APPROVE THE SOUTHTOWN ZONING
PETITION TO SEE ONE OUR CAMPUS
BUSINESS RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT CO
LIMIT THE MAXIMUM HEIGHT TO ONE
HUNDRED FEET LIMIT THE MAXIMUM
NUMBER OF PARKING SPACES ZERO
POINT TO FIVE PER DWELLING UNIT
LIMIT.
THE PRINCIPLE USED TO BE
MULTIPLE FAMILY RESIDENTIAL AND
NO MORE THAN THIRTY PERCENT
SHORT TERM RENTALS AND LIMIT
NATURAL GAS CONNECTION TO
EMERGENCY BACKUP POWER ONLY
SUBJECT TO EXECUTING A
STATEMENT OF CONDITIONS.
THE SECOND MOTION READS THE
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION HEREBY
RECOMMENDS THAT THE MAYOR AND
CITY COUNCIL VACATE THE
UNIMPROVED PLOTTED ALLEY
OF THREE OF THE HAMILTON ROWS
AND SHE IN ADDITION TO THE CITY
AND TOWN OF UNIVER AND MOTION
THREE READS THE ENTIRE CITY
PLANNING COMMISSION HEREBY
RECOMMENDS THE MAYOR AND CITY
COUNCIL APPROVE THE SOUTHTOWN
SITE PLAN AT ONE SIX ZERO ONE S
STATE STREET AND DEVELOPMENT
AGREEMENT TO ANYBODY WOULD LIKE
TO MOVE THIS MOTION MOVE BY
COMMISSIONER SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER DISH.
WE ARE NOW IN DISCUSSION IS
THERE ANYBODY WHO WOULD LIKE TO
KICK US OFF
?
>> COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT,
THANK YOU.
UM WHERE DO I START?
I HAVE SOME COMMENTS AND I
THINK I HAVE A COUPLE
OF QUESTIONS.
UM, I STARTED MY QUESTIONS SO I
NOTICED FIRST OF ALL I'M SORRY
THAT I WAS NOT HERE WHEN YOU
GUYS ARE HERE BEFORE BUT I DID
LISTEN TO THE WHOLE MEETING SO
I THINK I'M CAUGHT UP.
>> SO YOU REMOVED THE OPEN
SPACE CONDITION BEFORE THAT
ACTUALLY CHANGES MADE TO THE
OPEN SPACE.
I KNOW THEY HAVE THAT.
I LOVE THAT STAIRCASE UP
OF HENRY.
>> I DON'T ACTUALLY MALLORY SO
THAT'S AWESOME.
YEAH.
STIMPSON STIMPSON HAS WON A
LARGE ONE THAT GETS UP THROUGH
THE PLAZA.
>> THEN THERE'S ONE OFF WHITE
STREET AND OFF HENRY STREET
THAT ARE ALL ACCESSIBLE UP TO
THE PODIUM AND IT SEEMS LIKE
THE INTERNAL STAIRWELLS ALSO
ARE GALETTE FOR THE MOST PART.
MOST OF THEM YEAH.
THE ONLY ONES THAT ARE NOT ARE
IN THE THE TALLER THIS THE
EIGHT STOREY BUILDING THAT'S
SEPARATED BECAUSE IT'S IN THE
MIDDLE SO WE COULD GET AS MANY
UNITS AROUND THE PERIMETER AS
POSSIBLE BUT EVERY OTHER
STAIRCASE DOES HAVE WINDOWS.
YEAH I MEAN THAT'S I'M SURE YOU
KNOW THIS THAT'S LIKE I SAID
THE OTHER ABOUT PURSUITS.
>> THAT'S HOW YOU GET PEOPLE TO
TAKE STAIRS, OK, IF YOU LIVE ON
THE SECOND OR THIRD FLOOR YOU
DON'T WANT TO HAVE TO TAKE AN
ELEVATOR BUT STAIRWELLS ARE
ALWAYS OFTEN SO LIKE YOU DON'T
THEY'RE SCARY.
YOU DON'T WANT TO TAKE THEM.
SO HAVING THE WINDOWS MAKES A
HUGE DIFFERENCE.
I ALSO I NOTICED ON THE SITE
THE REFERENCE TO THE WELL
BUILDING STANDARD YOU'RE NOT
SEEKING WELL SORT UNCRACKED
YOU'RE JUST USING THE STANDARD,
CORRECT?
>> YES, I'M JUST USING THE
STANDARD THE GUIDELINES IN THE
STANDARD THAT ALSO CONTRIBUTED
TO GLAZING IN EACH UNIT THE
MINIMUM GLAZING AND I THINK THE
STAIRWELLS THE STAIRWELLS MAKE
THE STAIRWELLS NICE IS PART
OF WELL ISN'T THERE THE I'M
GLAD THAT YOU'RE USING THE
STANDARD BUT NOT GOING SO FAR
AS TO ACTUALLY GET CERTIFIED
BECAUSE I THINK IT'S JUST LIKE
A REALLY EXPENSIVE PROCESS THAT
DOESN'T ALWAYS SEEM WORTH IT.
BUT USING THE STANDARD I THINK
IT'S AWESOME.
>> UM, I LOVE THIS PROJECT.
I'M VERY EXCITED ABOUT THIS
PROJECT.
THIS MIGHT BE MORE OF A
QUESTION FOR STAFF ON PROCESS
THE TRANSPORTATION
RECOMMENDATIONS MAYBE THIS IS A
QUESTION TO THE PETITIONER
RECOMMENDATIONS FROM
TRANSPORTATION THE MTA.
DO YOU THOUGHTS ON THOSE?
>> ARE THEY THINGS THAT YOU
GUYS ARE WILLING TO CONSIDER?
DO THEY HAVE TO DO THOSE THINGS
CORRECT?
THEY'RE JUST RECOMMENDED LIKE
FOR US TO APPROVE THE PROJECT.
YOU'RE NOT SAYING THAT YOUR
APPROVAL IS NOT CONTINGENT
DOING THIS?
WE'RE USING THOSE UM IF I MAY
BUT CORRECT ME IF I'M WRONG.
OUR TUNE IN TO THE ORDINANCE
VIGILANCE COMMITTEE DISCUSSION
NEXT TUESDAY.
>> UM, OUR STANDARDS
OF APPROVAL AND REVIEW CRITERIA
FOR TRANSPORTATION IMPACT
STUDIES IS A LITTLE BIT
OUTDATED BUT THE GIST IS IN THE
DO NO HARM SORT MODEL AND SO WE
TAKE THE RECOMMENDATIONS FROM
THE TRAFFIC IMPACT STUDY AND WE
SAY YOU'LL NEED TO DO THOSE
RECOMMENDATIONS IN ORDER TO
SORT OF MAINTAIN THAT DO NO
HARM.
>> NOW THE CODE LANGUAGE TALKS
ABOUT LEVELS OF SERVICE AND SO
FORTH BUT THE GIST WOULD BE DO
NO HARM AND SO THEY HAVE A MY
UNDERSTANDING IS THEY HAVE
AGREED WITH THE RECOMMENDATIONS
OF THEIR OWN TRAFFIC IMPACT
STUDY.
IT WILL BE INCORPORATED INTO
THE DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
BECAUSE THOSE THINGS ARE OFF
SITE OR THEY DON'T SHOW UP WELL
ON THE SITE PLAN.
>> BUT THEY THEY KIND OF DO
NEED TO DO THOSE THINGS IN
ORDER TO MEET THE STANDARD
OF CRITERIA FOR SITE PLANNING
APPROVAL AND THE STANDARD FOR
REVIEWING A TRAFFIC IMPACT
STUDY MAINTAINING THE LEVELS
OF SERVICE, SUPPORTING ALL THE
CODES AND POLICIES OF THE CITY
WHICH INCLUDE OUR
TRANSPORTATION PLANS AND
POLICIES ARE AND THOSE SORTS
OF STANDARDS.
>> BUT YOU SAID THEY IT'S NOT
THE DEVELOPER BECAUSE
CONVERTING HENRY STREET TO TO
SAY THAT THE CITY YET THERE ARE
SOME OF THOSE ITEMS WITHIN
THEIR CONTROL AND THERE ARE
SOME THAT ARE THAT ARE NOT NOW
CONVERTING THIS THE CITY I
WOULD IMAGINE I AM USING MY
EXPERIENCE WORKING WITH THE
TRANSPORTATION ENGINEERS BUT I
AM NOT A TRANSPORTATION
ENGINEER.
I WOULD ASSUME THAT THE CITY
WOULD HANDLE ALL OF THE PROPER
RESOLUTIONS AND MOTIONS AND
APPROVALS FOR THAT TRAFFIC
CONTROL ORDERS BUT PERHAPS THEY
MAY BEAR THE COST OF SIGNAGE,
CHANGING THE SIGNS, CHANGING
THE PAINT, CHANGING THE STRIPES
A LOT THAT WILL BE TORN UP
ANYWAY.
AND SO THIS WILL GO INTO THE
SEVILLE PLANS ABOUT HOW TO
RESTORE THE STREET AND WHERE TO
PUT WHICH PAVEMENT MARKINGS,
WHERE TO RESTORE WHICH SIGNS.
>> OK, YEAH I CAN FOLLOW UP
WHICH WE WORKED CLOSELY WITH
OUR TRANSPORTATION ENGINEER TO
COME UP WITH THESE
RECOMMENDATIONS TO YOU SO IT
WASN'T AS MUCH OF LIKE YOU HAVE
TO DO THESE.
WE BROUGHT UP THESE IDEAS AND
WE'RE WE'RE VERY HAPPY TO DO
THESE THE RECOMMENDATIONS THAT
THEY'VE COME UP WITH FOR BETTER
PEDESTRIAN SAFETY AND BETTER
FUNCTION ESPECIALLY FOR WHITE
STREET FOR FOR BIKES TO TO TURN
ON IT, USE IT UM OR HENRY
STREET I MEAN AND AS YOU CAN
SEE ON THIS SITE BEING SHOWN
HERE, HOW MUCH OF THIS DARK
AREA WOULD BE THE TORN UP AREA
THAT ALEXIS MENTIONED INCLUDING
THE CROSSWALK RIGHT ACROSS TO
THE RIGHT AND WE TALK TO PEOPLE
AT THE RIGHT FOR WHAT TYPE
OF CROSSWALK WOULD BE NEEDED SO
THAT IT DOESN'T IMPACT THE BUS
STOP THAT'S THERE OFTEN.
SO I'M COMFORTABLE WITH THE
ZONING CHANGE.
I MEAN CAMPUS BUSINESS DISTRICT
I THINK LIKE THAT DEFINITION
HAS CHANGED SIGNIFICANTLY LIKE
EVERYWHERE ON CAMPUS NOW IT
SEEMS LIKE AND I THINK THE MORE
GENERAL COMMENT LIKE THERE'S SO
MANY THINGS IN THIS PROJECT YOU
GUYS HAVE BROUGHT US SO MUCH
BUT WE BASICALLY BEG OTHER
PETITIONERS FOR I MEAN I KNOW
WHEN YOU'RE FLIPPING THROUGH
LIKE WORD SAVE GLASS JUST ALL
KINDS OF THESE LITTLE DETAILS
THAT ARE SO IMPORTANT LIKE THIS
PROJECT IN PARTICULAR WAS
POSTPONED FOR OVER A MONTH AND
I THINK IN PART BECAUSE STAFF
REVIEWS ARE COMPLETED FOR THE
FIRST TIME THAT YOU WERE HERE
AND THIS ISN'T A COMMENT TO YOU
GUYS AT ALL BUT LIKE I THINK
WE'VE TALKED ABOUT THIS BEFORE,
LIKE IT WOULD REALLY BEHOOVE US
AS A CITY TO OFFER SOME SORT
OF EXPEDITED APPROVAL STAFF
REVIEW PROCESS TO PROJECTS THAT
ARE HELPING US MEET LIKE THESE
SPECIFIC THINGS THAT WE WANT
LIKE KIND OF THAT CARROT
APPROACH THAT HOPEFULLY WE GET
OTHER DEVELOPERS TO CONSIDER
SIMILAR THINGS UNTIL WE CAN
REQUIRE THEM BECAUSE IT'S JUST
TOO BAD THAT THIS HAD TO BE
POSTPONED FOR OVER A MONTH.
SO I'M LOOKING FORWARD TO
PUTTING US ON THIS PROJECT.
>> COMMISSIONER DISH FOR YOU
NEXT IN LINE.
THE QUESTIONS THAT I WAS GOING
TO ASK WERE PRECISELY ABOUT THE
TRAFFIC THINGS BECAUSE I DID
NOT SEE THE PETITION.
>> I DO SOME OF THEM BUT IT
WOULD BE INTERESTING IF PRIVATE
DEVELOPERS COULD CHANGE THE
DIRECTIONS OF STREETS.
UM, SO I DO NOT THINK THAT I
HAVE NO I REALLY DON'T AND
THANK YOU FOR BRINGING IT BACK
WITH THE ANSWERING SOME OF THE
CONCERNS THAT EMERGED ANY OTHER
KOSHER MILLS.
THANK YOU.
I'M EXCITED ABOUT THIS.
I PLAN JUST AS MUCH AS I WAS A
MONTH AGO IN RETROSPECT AND
PARTICULARLY TO THE COMMENT
ABOUT POSTPONEMENT IN
RETROSPECT SEPARATING THE
THINGS WOULD SATISFIED WHAT WE
COULD HAVE DONE LIKE I WOULD I
THINK I TRIED TO CHANNEL THEM
THAT I WAS VERY HAPPY ABOUT
THIS.
I PAID I WANT THIS BUILT
VACATION SMALL NO CONCERNS.
IT'S IT WAS THE REASONING NOT
AGAIN FOR THIS PROJECT.
IT'S THINKING ABOUT THE LONG
TERM AND SO THE CONDITIONS I
THINK TOTALLY ABSOLUTELY MOVE
IN THAT DIRECTION.
I'LL JUST THROW EVERYBODY ELSE
TO KNOW.
UM WELL FIRST I THINK THIS
WASN'T THE CONDITION
NECESSARILY THAT I WAS REALLY
FOCUSED ON SUSTAINABILITY AT
ELEMENTS.
SO I THINK HAVING YOU KNOW,
OFFERING THE BEFORE
ELECTRIFICATION SATISFIES THAT
JUST SO PEOPLE KNOW THEY'RE NOT
TIED.
YOU GUYS AREN'T TIED MAYBE IN
THE FUTURE IS TIED TO
GEOTHERMAL.
THEY'RE RIGHT.
AND SO SO BUT SO LONG AS
EVERYBODY KNOWS THAT ULTIMATELY
LEAD TO SOLAR ON THE ROOF OR
MASS TIMBER.
RIGHT.
LIKE YES.
NOBODY IS TIED TO THAT AND SO
I'M OKAY WITH THAT.
>> I'M OKAY WITH THAT OVER
ELEMENTS.
BUT THE OTHER PART OF THE
CONDITION CHANGED ABOUT KIND
OF USES.
RIGHT.
THIS IS VERY MUCH SO AT LEAST
MY READ OF THE CONDITION IS
THERE'S LOTS OF EXPANSIVE USES
THAT ARE ALLOWED AND SEE WHAT
THEY ARE.
THIS IS EFFECTIVELY LIKE VERY
MUCH RESTRICTING AND ACTUALLY
THAT'S MY QUESTION EITHER TO
THE PETITIONERS OR TO STAFF THE
CONDITION READS THAT IT WOULD
BE PRIMARILY MULTIFAMILY
RESIDENTIAL WITH ALLOWANCES UP
TO 30 PERCENT FOR SHORT TERM
RENTALS ARE THERE ANY OTHER
RESIDENTIAL BASED CONDITION?
WOULD THERE BE OTHER
NONRESIDENTIAL USES THAT WOULD
BE ALLOWED WHAT PRIMARILY MEANS
FIFTY ONE PERCENT OK, SO A GOOD
PORTION OF THE BUILDING COULD
BE DEVOTED NON RESIDENTIAL
USES?
>> UM, I THINK WHAT WE USUALLY
SEE IN MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS
ARE ACTUALLY PRIMARILY
RESIDENTIAL.
IT'S USUALLY THE FIRST FLOOR
MAYBE THE SECOND FLOOR IS USED
FOR COMMERCIAL AND THEN
SOMETIMES YOU GET A FEW FLOORS
OF OFFICE AND THEN THE UPPER
STORIES ARE RESIDENTIAL.
SO IF YOU'RE GOING A SQUARE
FOOT OR BY PERCENTAGE WISE MOST
BUILDINGS ARE PRIMARILY
RESIDENTIAL I MY OPINION IS
THAT IN TERMS OF LIKE REAL TRUE
LIMITATIONS THIS BUILDING COULD
NOT BE A HOTEL BECAUSE THAT IS
A COMMERCIAL USE AND YOU DON'T
OWN A HOTEL WOULD BE PROBABLY
THE PRIMARY.
>> BUT OTHERWISE I FEEL THAT
MOST DEVELOPMENTS IN AN AREA OR
MIX MIXED USE SCENARIOS THAT
YOU COULD THINK OF WOULD
PROBABLY STILL BE PERMITTED.
>> OK, SO I'M ACTUALLY IN YOUR
PRESENTATION YOU HAD A TABLE
THAT KIND OF LAID OUT YOU KNOW
WHAT TABLE AND TALKING ABOUT
MAYBE YOU COULD READ MY MIND.
I KNOW YOU MEAN THE WAY THAT IT
WAS EARLY ON IN THE
PRESENTATION THIS MORNING THAT
ONE.
RIGHT.
AND THANK YOU.
SO WHAT I'M HEARING IS THAT
WHAT THIS ALLOWS THIS REASONING
ALLOWS FOR TWO HUNDRED AND
SIXTEEN UNITS.
>> WHAT I MEAN THERE'S MULTIPLE
WAYS OF DOING THIS BUT MORE OR
LESS LIKE AT LEAST HALF
OF THOSE HAVE TO BE MULTIFAMILY
RESIDENTIAL.
AT LEAST HALF OF HALF OF THAT
WOULD HAVE TO BE MULTIFAMILY
AND SO AT LEAST ONE HUNDRED AND
EIGHT WOULD NEED TO BE RENTAL
OR MULTIFAMILY RESIDENTIAL.
THANK YOU.
THE REST OF THAT SQUARE FOOTAGE
COULD BE USED FOR OTHER THINGS
.
>> BUT WHAT I'M TRYING TO SAY
IS LIKE WE ARE GOING TO GET
SOME LIKE WE TALK ABOUT HOUSING
RIGHT.
AND HOTEL IS NOT QUITE HOUSING
AND SO I THINK THAT THAT'S
REALLY HELPFUL AS A POINT
OF COMPARISON.
IT'S IN MY MIND AT LEAST AND I
DIDN'T WRITE DOWN THE NUMBERS
FAST ENOUGH.
SO THANK YOU FOR COMING BACK TO
THIS.
I THINK THAT THAT'S REALLY THAT
HELPS ME KIND OF PUT THAT IN
CONTEXT AND THANKS FOR DEFINING
PRIMARILY FOR US KNOWING THAT I
WANT TO MAKE SURE ACTUALLY THAT
THERE IS SOME FLEXIBILITY LIKE
WITHIN THE ZONING DISTRICT.
I MEAN THAT'S ONE OF THE
BENEFITS OF THIS ZONING
DISTRICT.
>> IT'S NOT ONLY RESIDENTIAL,
IT ALLOWS FOR MIXED USE AND SO
I THINK THAT WE'RE I WANTED TO
MAKE SURE THAT YOU'RE NOT I
LIKE THE FLEXIBILITY OF THAT
.
DID YOU WANT TO ADD DID YOU
HAVE ANYTHING ELSE?
OK, SUPER ONE FINAL QUESTION
THAT I HAVE IN YOUR ORIGINAL
STAFF REPORT TO US YOU SAID
THAT THERE WERE YOUR
RECOMMENDATION THAT THIS IS THE
APPROPRIATE DISTRICT WAS
CONTINGENT ON TWO THINGS AND
ONE WAS THOSE AND I GOT TO GO
BACK AND PULL UP THE STAFF
REPORT.
ONE WAS ASSOCIATED WITH THE
WHAT WENT TO ZIBA.
RIGHT.
LIKE DOES IT ACTUALLY MEET THE
APPROPRIATE ESSABAR FOR THE
DISTRICT AND THAT ZIBA
DETERMINATION MOVES THE LAND
THE QUESTION THE OTHER ONE WAS
ABOUT THE 19 FOOT STEP BACK
FROM THE BACK OF THE CURB IN
ALL OF THE AREAS.
>> AND I THINK MY QUESTION TO
YOU IS IS THAT IS UM IS THAT
ONLY IS THAT BECAUSE OF THE
SITE WE'RE SEEING THAT ON THE
SITE PLAN THAT WE HAVE BUT IS
THERE IS THERE A CHANCE THAT IF
THAT PLAN DOESN'T GET BUILT
THAT THAT STIPULATION ISN'T MET
IN THE FUTURE?
LOOK, ARE THERE PLACES WHERE
THEY WOULD NO NO SETBACK IS
REQUIRED ON THE SIDES IN THE
REAR AND WOULD WOULD THEY RUN
OR IS THAT TOO CLOSE WOULD LEAD
TO LESS THAN NINETEEN FEET.
THANKS.
UM, THE STAFF FELT THAT THE
NINETEEN FEET FROM THE BACK
OF THE CURB TO BUILDING PHASE
WHICH IS A WHICH IS DIFFERENT
IT'S A LITTLE BIT OF AN APPLES
TO ORANGES COMPARED TO SETBACKS
LIKE WHAT WAS IMPORTANT WAS
ALMOST A MITIGATION FOR THE UP
ZONING.
WE ACTUALLY WE WOULD HAVE
RECOMMENDED APPROVAL OF THE
REZONING WITHOUT ANY FURTHER
CONDITIONS.
WE FELT THAT THE C ONE IN OUR
DISTRICT WAS APPROPRIATE FOR
THIS LOCATION FOR THIS THE
SETTING MET THE GOALS OF THE
MASTER PLAN COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
>> MANY OF THE THE THE
COLLECTIVE GOALS OF THE CITY.
BUT WHEN THE SITE PLAN PROPOSED
BECAUSE EVEN IF YOU DON'T SEE
WHAT ARE THE BUILDING DOESN'T
NECESSARILY NEED TO BE TWO
HUNDRED AND SOME THOUSAND
SQUARE FEET BUT IT WAS AND SO
THEREFORE WITH THAT DENSITY IT
SHOULD HAVE THAT DOWNTOWN LEVEL
OF OF SPACE TO PROVIDE WHATEVER
PEDESTRIAN AMENITIES AND NON
MOTORIZED AMENITIES MULTI
AMENITIES ARE NEEDED.
>> I THINK WE WOULD RESERVE
JUDGMENT AND AGAIN TAKE IT ON A
CASE BY CASE BASIS SHOULD THIS
PROJECT SHOULD IT BE RESOLVED
THE PROJECT NOT BE BUILT?
IT WOULD DEPEND THEN ON WHAT IS
PROPOSED IF A LESS DENSE
PROJECT IS PROPOSED, MAYBE WE
DON'T NEED THAT 19 FEET MAYBE
MAYBE WHATEVER SPACE IS THERE
WOULD BE APPROPRIATE FOR THAT
DEVELOPMENT.
SO THAT'S I THINK IF I'M
ANSWERING THE QUESTION OR
TRYING TO ANSWER IT IT WOULD BE
A KEY FEATURE
IF THE NEXT
ITERATION WAS EXACTLY THE SIZE.
>> BUT I
HAVE CONFIDENCE IN OUR
DEVELOPMENT REVIEW STAFF AND
OUR PLANNING COMMISSION AND OUR
CITY COUNCIL THAT WE WOULD MAKE
SURE THAT WHATEVER IS PROPOSED
IS THE RIGHT THING JUST LIKE WE
GOT NOW IF THAT MAKES SENSE.
I'M SAYING I DON'T I DON'T FEEL
THAT WE I DON'T FEEL VERY, VERY
STRONGLY THAT WE NEED TO
SAFEGUARD THE NINETEEN FOR THE
NINETEEN BECAUSE I FEEL IT'S
SORT OF CIRCUMSTANTIAL
DEPENDING ON WHAT'S PROPOSED
AND IT'S HARD TO PREDICT THE
FUTURE.
SO I FEEL CONFIDENT IN OUR
PROCESSES AND OUR FLIGHT PLAN
REVIEW PROCESS.
>> OK, I WAS I APPRECIATE THAT
IT GIVES ME A LITTLE BIT
OF COMFORT NOT GOING TO LIE IN
PART BECAUSE MANY TIMES UH,
WELL THIS IS THIS THIS IS EARLY
ON COMPLAINT COMMISSION WE'VE
HAD DEVELOPED WE'VE HAD
DEVELOPER ATTORNEYS SAY AND AT
THE PODIUM AND SAY ONCE IT'S
WHEN IT'S NOT A REZONING WHAT
IT'S THE FLIGHT PLAN SAY YOU
SHALL APPROVE IT.
IT MEETS THE STANDARDS AND THAT
AND SO I'M NOT SURE WHAT WE
HAVE TO REQUIRE MORE THAT FACE
SETBACK AGAIN, I WANT THIS I
LIKE I WANT EVERYTHING IN HERE
AND I CAN CLARIFY TWO THINGS.
YEAH.
THAT ONE THE SEE WHEN OUR
DISTRICT DOES REQUIRE A TEN
FOOT SET BACK NOW YOU CAN FLEX
THAT TEN FEET DOWN TO FIVE FEET
IF IF THE IF THERE'S
COMPENSATION THERE'S INCREASED
SETBACKS OR SOMETHING ON A
DIFFERENT SIDE BUT THERE ARE
SETBACK REQUIREMENTS OK IN THE
SEA WHEN OUR DISTRICT REQUIRES
A MINIMUM OF 10 FEET FROM THE
FRONT THERE'S NO SIDE NO REAR
BUT THE SITE HAS NO SIDE.
NO WE HAVE NOW BECAUSE THE
ENTIRE THING IS FRONT.
YES.
YEAH THAT'S OK.
YEAH YEAH.
SO SO THERE ARE SOME SO THERE
IS THE EXISTING RIGHT OF WAY
THERE IS THE EXISTING SIDEWALK
SPACE NOW AND THERE IS A
REQUIRED TEN FOOT SEPAK UM THAT
CAN BE FLEX TO FIVE FEET AND AS
THE PLANNING COMMISSION KNOWS
WE ARE AND WE DO INCREMENTALLY
CHANGE OUR STANDARDS I THINK AS
THE CITY DENSIFY WE ARE GOING
TO BE LOOKING AT MAYBE
CODIFYING SOME OF THESE
STANDARDS FOR PEDESTRIAN
AMENITY ZONES AND SO FORTH.
SO THAT'S WHY I'M A I'M I WOULD
BE HAVE SOME CONCERN THAT I
WOULD NOT MY RECOMMENDATION IS
I WOULD NOT HOLD UP WHAT IS ON
THE TABLE FOR THOSE FUTURE
CONCERNS.
>> OK, UNDERSTOOD.
>> I CAN CLARIFY TO HOW WE'RE
USING WHAT ALEXIS DESCRIBED AS
THAT FIVE SET BACK AND HOW
WE'RE USING THE NINE FEET AND
ON THIS UH THIS SLIDE HERE YOU
CAN SEE WE HAVE OVER 19 FEET
FROM THE BUILDING FACE TO THE
CURB SO THAT 10 FOOT STEP BACK
ALREADY AREA DOES PUSH PUSH
THIS THIS BACK PRETTY FAR AND
THEN THIS IS WHERE IN THIS CASE
THIS OVERHANG IS THE ONLY THING
ENCROACHING INTO THE FIVE FEET
.
SO THAT'S HOW THOSE TEN FOOT
SETBACKS REALLY DOES PUSH YOU
BEYOND THE NINETEEN FEET
ALREADY.
>> OK, I WAS GONNA SAY THAT'S
HOW IT'S JUST LIKE IF 19 FEET
WAS THE THING LIKE HOW CLOSE
ARE WE LIKE ARE THERE PLACES
WHERE BECAUSE WE AS WE HAVE
DISCUSSED IN OTHER AND OTHER
STREETS LIKE SOMETIMES THE CURB
TO THE PROPERTY LINE IS VERY
SMALL.
>> RIGHT.
OK, SUPER THANK YOU.
AND SO WE DON'T HAVE THAT
SITUATION HERE SO MUCH TO BREAK
THE MAP THEN MY ONLY QUESTION
THERE HAS BEEN TICKED OFF.
I'M SUPER EXCITED.
I'M SORRY I DID NOT SUGGEST
THAT LAST TIME BUT I REALLY AM
EXCITED FOR THIS.
I HOPE THIS GETS BUILT ON THIS
PROPERTY.
>> I DO THINK THAT THERE'S BUT
YEAH SO THANK YOU COMMISSIONER
CLARK, DID YOUR COMMENTS OR DID
I MISTAKEN THE MISTAKE YOUR
HAND?
I THINK WE'RE CAUSING ALL THREE
MOTIONS TOGETHER.
>> YEAH OK SO I JUST HAD A
QUICK QUESTION.
I'M JUST CURIOUS THE GREEN ROOF
CAN YOU JUST LIKE CLARIFY WHAT
MATERIALS WILL BE USED FOR THAT
AND WHAT YOUR GENERAL PLAN FOR
MAKING SPACE IS ACTIVATED?
>> YES.
I MEAN THERE'S TWO THERE ARE
TWO LEVELS OF THAT.
SO THERE'S THAT SECOND LEVEL
PODIUM WHICH LET ME FIND THE
RIGHT SLIDE HERE.
THE SECOND LEVEL ONE IS WHAT
THE ONE YOU'RE REFERRING TO OR
THE SIXTH LEVEL THE HIGHER ONE
OR BOTH BUT WHICHEVER ONE IS
LIKE IS THE ONE I'M MORE
INTERESTED.
>> OK, SO YEAH THIS IS THE THIS
IS THE VIEW ON THAT SECOND
PUBLIC SECOND LEVEL PUBLIC ONE
WE HAVE AREAS OF ARTIFICIAL
TURF SO IT'S A IT'S A RAISED
PAPER SYSTEM THAT'S ACROSS THIS
AREA.
SO PORTIONS OF IT ARE CONCRETE
TILES AND PORTIONS OF OUR WOOD
AND THEN PORTIONS ARE ACTUALLY
ARTIFICIAL TURF WHERE YOU CAN
PUT SOME FLEXIBLE FURNITURE OUT
SO IT DOESN'T NEED ANY
ADDITIONAL IRRIGATION WHICH
WOULDN'T BE APPROPRIATE.
AND THEN WE ALSO HAVE THESE
THESE LARGE AREAS THAT ARE
ALONG THE SIDE THAT ARE PLANTED
HERE TO BUFFER BOTH THE
SIDENTIAL SPACES AND EACH
RESIDENTIAL SPACE ON THE SECOND
FLOOR HAS A LITTLE OUTDOOR
TERRACE.
SO THAT BUFFER IS THAT SPACE.
SO WHEN YOU'RE IN THE MIDDLE
HERE YOU'RE SEPARATED FROM
PEOPLE THAT ARE LIVING THERE.
SO THERE'S A LITTLE BIT
OF PRIVACY THERE.
SAME THING ALONG THE NORTH SIDE
HERE AS WELL THAT'S ALSO
PLANTED THE SAME WAY IT'S
SCREENING SOME MECHANICAL
EQUIPMENT.
SO IT'S A LARGER PLANTED AREA
AND THEN THIS IS A WOOD DECK
ALONG HERE.
SO A LOT OF OPEN SPACE TO HAVE
FLEXIBLE FURNITURE AND AMENITY
SPACES THAT ISN'T SO SO FIXED
AND ALLOWS PEOPLE TO TO REALLY
USE IT THE WAY THEY LIKE.
YEAH, COMMISSIONER LEE, THANK
YOU.
>> UM, JUST TO RECAP, I THINK
THE REZONING IS PROBABLY THE
ELEMENT THAT WE ARE KIND
OF HONING IN ON AND THE JUST
ALWAYS RECAPPING KIND OF WHAT
THE CRITERIA BY WHICH WE RESIDE
IT'S GOING TO BE TO ESTABLISH
MAINTAIN SOUND STABLE,
DESIRABLE DEVELOPMENT WITHIN
THE TERRITORIAL LIMITS OF THE
CITY AND IT WON'T BE CHANGED
UNLESS IT'S AN AREA CHANGES THE
MUNICIPAL POLICY OR CHANGING
CONDITIONS IN THE PARTICULAR
AREA OR IN THE MUNICIPALITY
GENERALLY.
>> SO TO ME I THINK THIS HITS
ALL THREE SO SOUND STABLE
DESIRABLE DEVELOPMENT.
>> I DO BELIEVE THAT IT
SATISFIES THOSE THREE AS WELL
AS THE CHANGING CONDITIONS IN
THE MUNICIPALITY.
SO I THINK THERE'S HEIGHTENED
NEED FOR HOUSING.
>> I DO APPRECIATE THE FACT
THEY ADDRESSED THE THIRTY
PERCENT SHORT TERM RENTALS
RUNNING QUICK MAP STILL ONE
HUNDRED FIFTY ONE UNITS IS
PRETTY MUCH IF YOU MAX RCR THAT
SIXTY FIVE YOU HAD ONE HUNDRED
FIFTY ONE UNITS THIS IS STILL A
NET GAIN OF ONE HUNDRED
THIRTEEN UNITS OVER WHAT WE
HAVE CURRENTLY SO I THINK IT'S
IT'S GOOD MEANINGFUL
PLACEMAKING I THINK IT'S VERY
CHALLENGING TO HAVE A
DEVELOPMENT NOT FEEL LIKE IT'S
TURNED BACK ON SOMETHING RIGHT.
>> WELL WHAT'S THE FRONT WHAT'S
THE BACK.
I THINK IT DOES A VERY GOOD JOB
OF KIND OF REALLY HAVING ALL
DIMENSIONS OF THIS FEEL PRETTY
WELCOMING.
SO UM OVERALL MATCHES WITH THE
SUSTAINABILITY ELEMENT IMPROVES
THE BUILT ENVIRONMENT AND
INCREASES SUSTAINABILITY
ESPECIALLY ON A LIFECYCLE
ASSESSMENT BASIS WITH THE
INTENT OF THE CURRENT LAND PLAN
EVEN THOUGH IT'S TWO THOUSAND
NINE.
YEAH.
SO OVERALL I'M IN SUPPORT.
I THINK THIS MATCH IS PRETTY
MUCH EVERYTHING THAT WE HAVE
BEEN ASKING FOR.
>> THE QUESTION THAT I WAS
GOING TO ASK IS ABOUT THE MTI
RECOMMENDATIONS.
I DO THINK THAT THE
MUNICIPALITY ALSO NEED TO PULL
OUR OWN WEIGHT AS FAR AS RIGHT
OF WAY IMPROVEMENTS BECAUSE
TRANSPORTATION PLANNING NEEDS
TO BE IN TANDEM WITH LAND.
SO IF THERE'S ANYTHING I JUST
WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT WE ARE
FULLY COMMITTED TO MAKING SURE
THAT WE HAVE RIGHT OF WAY
IMPROVEMENTS THAT MATCH WITH
THE LAND USE SO OVERALL I'M IN
SUPPORT.
>> I DO BELIEVE THIS MEETS WITH
THE UDC REQUIREMENT FOR
REZONING.
>> I DO BELIEVE THAT THIS WILL
FURTHER OUR COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
MATCHES WITH THE LAND USE
ELEMENT AND THE SUSTAINABILITY
ELEMENT.
>> SO I WILL BE VOTING IN FAVOR
OF THIS.
>> THANK YOU.
ANY OTHER COMMENTS?
OK, I JUST HAVE ONE QUICK
QUESTION ABOUT THE PARKING
MAXIMUM.
UM, I'M WONDERING ABOUT PARKING
FOR NONRESIDENTIAL USES.
UM, AND WHETHER SO CURRENTLY WE
DON'T HAVE A MINIMUM BUT WE
ALSO THERE IS NO PARKING
MAXIMUM FOR MANY COMMERCIAL
USES AND I'M JUST WONDERING
ABOUT I DON'T KNOW WHETHER
THAT'S SOMETHING THAT WE SHOULD
BE THINKING ABOUT OR IF THAT'S
A CONCERN OR SOMETHING THAT
YOU'VE DISCUSSED.
I MEAN WE HAVEN'T DEDICATED
SPECIFIC SPACES TO COMMERCIAL
USERS IN HERE OR WHO CAN USE
THEM.
BUT THE CURRENT THE CURRENT
PARKING NUMBER ACCOUNTS FOR ONE
SPOT FOR EVERY FOUR.
IS THERE ADDITIONAL PARKING IN
HERE THAT'S ALLOTTED FOR THE
GROUND FOR COMMERCIAL THAT THE
DAYCARE CENTER?
>> SO WE'RE WE HAVE DRAWN ON
HERE SO THAT WOULD ALLOW FOR
FIFTY FOUR SPACES AND THIS
FIFTY THREE SPACES DRAWN AND
THERE'S NO ROOM FOR ANYTHING
ELSE.
>> YEAH I MEAN AGAIN THIS ISN'T
SOMETHING THAT IN MY MIND WOULD
BE UH RISE THE LEVEL OF HOLDING
UP THIS PETITION BY ANY MEANS
BUT I THINK IT LEAVES OPEN THE
POSSIBILITY THAT A DIFFERENT
DEVELOPMENT ON THIS SITE COULD
BE UM I DON'T KNOW LIKE A TGI
FRIDAYS WITH APARTMENTS UP
ABOVE AND A BIG A BIG PARKING
LOT.
RIGHT.
BECAUSE I MEAN WE DON'T
CURRENTLY IN THE CITY
OF PARKING MAXIMUM FOR
RESTAURANTS.
>> RIGHT.
UM, YEAH.
BUT THIS GOES TOWARDS YOU KNOW,
THE THE LIKE THE AMOUNT
OF TRAFFIC THAT YOU COULD DO
AND HOW MUCH YOU COULD ACTUALLY
ACTUALLY FILL IN THE SPACE YOU
COULDN'T DO ACTUALLY MORE THAN
THAT POINT TO FIVE WITH THE
AMOUNT OF EFFORT THAT EXISTS I
GUESS UNLESS YOU'RE SAYING LIKE
JUST ALLOTED SQUARE FOOTAGE FOR
PARKING STALLS LIMITED BY THAT.
YEAH YEAH.
OK, ANY OTHER COMMENTS OR
DISCUSSION?
ALL RIGHT.
MIXED KELLY I BELIEVE WE ARE
READY FOR A ROLL CALL VOTE ON
THE FIRST MOTION TO APPROVE THE
SOUTHTOWN REZONING PETITION TO
SEE ONE HOUR AND ACCEPT
CONDITIONS.
>> COMMISSIONER ABRAMS.
>> YES.
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT YES.
COUNTERMELODIES YES.
GUSHINGLY YES.
COMMISSIONER CLARK YES.
MR MILLS.
YES.
YES YOU'RE RIGHT.
>> THAT MOTION CARRIES ON THE
YES.
SECOND MOTION TO RECOMMEND THAT
>> THAT MOTION CARRIES ON THE
THE MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
SECOND MOTION TO RECOMMEND THAT
VACATE THE UNIMPROVED FLATTED
THE MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
ALLEY AND BLOCK THREE OF THE
VACATE THE UNIMPROVED FLATTED
HAMILTON ROADS AND SHE IN
ALLEY AND BLOCK THREE OF THE
ADDITION TO THE CITY AND TOWN
HAMILTON ROADS AND SHE IN
OF ANN ARBOR COMMISSIONAIRE
ADDITION TO THE CITY AND TOWN
APRON'S YES.
OF ANN ARBOR COMMISSIONAIRE
YES.
APRON'S YES.
NO DISH YES, DEFINITELY YES.
YES.
MR. CLARK.
NO DISH YES, DEFINITELY YES.
YES.
MR. CLARK.
MR. MILLS.
YES.
YES WISCH YES.
>> AND ON THE THIRD MOTION TO
RECOMMEND THAT THE MAYOR AND
CITY COUNCIL APPROVED THE
SOUTHTOWN SITE PLAN AND
DEVELOPED AN AGREEMENT RAYBANS
YES.
YES, YES.
COUNCIL MEMBER DISH YES
CONFESSIONARY YES.
PRESSURE CLERK YES.
YES RATIONALS YES.
YES YOU'RE RIGHT YES.
ALL THREE MOTIONS CARRY OK
CLARIFY THE ADDRESS I THINK YOU
STATED SIXTEEN ON ONE STATE
STREET.
>> I'M SORRY DID I SHOULD BE
SIXTY IN ONE WHITE STREET I
BELIEVE IS WHAT WE WERE USING
CORRECT TO CHANGE.
YEAH YEAH OK
AND WHAT ASPECT IN
TERMS OF THE NAMING CONVENTION
OK I THINK THIS COULD BE
CORRECTED.
I WOULDN'T STRESS TOO MUCH
ABOUT IT.
WE CAN RESOLVE THIS THING
BETWEEN NOW CITY COUNCIL
CONGRATULATIONS.
THANK YOU ALL VERY MUCH.
THANK YOU.
WE'RE GOING TO TAKE A BRIEF ONE
MINUTE RECESS AND JUST ALLOW
COMMISSIONER SAUV TIME TO
REJOIN US HERE IN THE CHAMBER
SOMETHING THIS YEAH.
IT WAS IN THE LAST ONE.
IT WAS I DIDN'T INTEND THAT
THAT WAS MY ONLY NO INTENTION
AND
HERE YOU GO.
THANK YOU, MR.
STREET.
IT'S BEEN WASTED.
WE CAN FIGURE OUT HOW TO MAKE
SURE WE'RE GOOD.
OH NO THANK YOU.
GOOD.
SO
SOCIALIST THIS SHOULD BEEN
OH YEAH.
IF YOU NEED ANYTHING THINK
THAT'S GOING TO BE OK, YOU CAN
COME UP HERE ANY QUESTIONS.
YEAH
.
UH THANK YOU COMMISSIONER
ABRAMS FOR CHEERING.
WE ARE BACK WITH THE NEXT
AGENDA ITEM WHICH IS TWO SIX
SEVEN ZERO TO TWO SIX NINE ZERO
AND ARBER LANE ROAD FOR CITY
COUNCIL APPROVAL REQUEST TO
REZONE THESE TWO PARCELS
TOTALING APPROXIMATELY ONE
POINT SIX ACRES FROM R1 C
SINGLE FAMILY RESIDENTIAL
ZONING TO OH OFFICE DISTRICT
ZONING.
>> NO NEW DEVELOPMENT IS
PROPOSED AND STAFF
RECOMMENDATION IS APPROVAL.
FIRST WE WILL START WITH
PETITION OR PRESENTATION.
>> YOU HAVE TEN MINUTES OK
THANK YOU.
>> GOOD EVENING.
MY NAME IS SCOTT MUNSELL.
I'M AN ATTORNEY WITH DEVER IBSA
.
>> I ADDRESS THREE OR ONE NORTH
MAIN STREET SUITE TWO HUNDRED.
>> ALSO WITH ME IS ANDY RIFE.
HE'S THE OWNER OF THE PROPERTY
JUST CAME FROM HIS SON'S LITTLE
LEAGUE GAME SO HE'S YOU KNOW,
GO T BALL AND THIS IS ANDY'S
REQUEST TO REZONE TWENTY
SEVENTEEN TWENTY SIX NINETY
FROM OUR ONE C TO OFFICE.
JUST A COUPLE OF BACKGROUND
FACTS AND HOW WE GOT HERE.
ANDY'S FAMILIES OWN THESE TWO
PARCELS SINCE ABOUT THE
NINETEEN SEVENTIES.
THERE'S TWO LOTS AS YOU CAN SEE
FROM THE AERIAL ONE HAS A HOUSE
ON IT WHICH IS SMALL VERY SMALL
HOUSE CLOSE TO AN EVER SELINE
ROAD THE SECOND LOT HAS A HOUSE
AND THEN SOME STORAGE BUILDINGS
IN THE BACK OVER THESE WERE HAD
BEEN USED FOR RESIDENTIAL
PURPOSES OVER TIME THEY WERE
RENTALS BUT THEY BECAME LESS
AND LESS DESIRABLE FOR RENTALS
DUE TO THE INCREASED TRAFFIC ON
AND ARBOR SALEEN ROAD AND JUST
THE THE ADDITIONAL DEVELOPMENT
IN THAT AREA AND SO THEY BECAME
HARDER AND HARDER TO RENT.
SO IN TWENTY ABOUT TWENTY
NINETEEN ANDY MOVED HIS OFFICE
INTO THE TWENTY SIX SEVENTY
SMALL BUILDING.
HE RUNS A COMMERCIAL CLEANING
BUSINESS.
THERE ARE NORMALLY TWO TO THREE
EMPLOYEES AT THE IN THAT HOUSE
WITH TWO OR THREE CARS DURING
THE DAY HE USES THE LARGER
STORAGE BUILDING FOR EQUIPMENT
SUPPLIES ET CETERA.
HE WAS DOING THAT AND THEN
ABOUT TWENTY TWENTY TWENTY
TWENTY TO THE ZONING
ADMINISTRATOR STOPPED BY AND
SAID HEY THIS IS ZONED
RESIDENTIAL.
YOU CAN'T HAVE AN OFFICE THERE.
>> AND SO ANDY WAS TRYING TO
FIGURE OUT WHAT TO DO BUT ONE
OF THE SOLUTIONS WOULD BE TO
REZONE THE SITE TO OFFICE.
HE DOES NOT WANT TO MOVE HIS
OFFICE.
HE WANTS TO KEEP USING THAT
LOCATION FOR HIS OFFICE.
HE DOES NOT PLAN ANY CHANGES
FOR THE SITE FOR THE
FORESEEABLE FUTURE.
HE JUST WANTS TO USE IT FOR HIS
COMMERCIAL CLEANING BUSINESS
OFFICE AND USE THE STORAGE
BUILDING THE BACK FOR JUST THE
WAY HE'S BEEN DOING IT WITHOUT
OBJECTION FROM ANYBODY.
SO YOU KNOW, AGAIN, THE
IMPORTANT THING TO FOR THE
DRIVER OF WHY WE'RE HERE IS
BECAUSE THE ZONING
ADMINISTRATOR SAID YOU'VE GOT
AN ISSUE.
>> HE DOESN'T AGAIN OTHERWISE
WE WOULDN'T BE HERE.
HE DOESN'T PLAN ANY CHANGES NOW
OF COURSE IF HE'S ZONING TO
OFFICE THAT HAS TO BE SOMETHING
THAT YOU WOULD CONSIDER.
>> BUT JUST SO YOU KNOW,
THERE'S NOTHING CONTEMPLATED AT
THIS TIME AS FAR AS THE VARIOUS
LAND USES TO THE EAST.
YOU CAN JUST SEE IT IN THE
CORNER IS A GAS STATION AT THE
CORNER OF AN WHISTLIN ROAD AND
EISENHAUER THAT HAS GOTTEN
INCREASINGLY MORE ACTIVE IT HAS
A VERY ACTIVE CONVENIENCE
STORE.
IT NOW HAS A LIQUOR LICENSE.
IT NOW HAS A BURGER KIND
OF JOINT.
SO THAT PARTICULAR LOCATION
IMMEDIATELY ACROSS THE STREET
REALLY HAS AN IMPACT ON THE
ABILITY TO USE THE SITE FOR
SINGLE FAMILY RESIDENTIAL
PURPOSES.
FARTHER TO THE EAST YOU'VE GOT
THE WHOLE FOODS AREA COMPLEX.
THERE'S JUST AND THEN OF COURSE
TO THE SOUTH WEST YOU'VE GOT
PITTSFIELD TOWNSHIP AND THE
TARGET MYERS AREA OUT THERE HAS
JUST EXPLODED WITH HOUSING.
THERE'S JUST A TREMENDOUS
INCREASE OF TRAFFIC AND
OBVIOUSLY IN ROAD THAT HAS AN
IMPACT ON THOSE TWO SITES I
MENTIONED JUST TO THE SOUTH IS
NINETY FOUR AND THEN TARGET ET
CETERA TO THE WEST IS
MULTIFAMILY AND IMMEDIATELY TO
THE SOUTH OF THE SITE IS
ACTUALLY THE ACCESS DRIVE TO
THAT MULTIFAMILY THOSE
MULTIFAMILY PURPOSES AND THEN
TO THE NORTH YOU'VE GOT SINGLE
FAMILY RESIDENTIAL THAT ALL
ENTER NOT AN ENTIRE SALEEN ROAD
BUT TO THE NORTH THE ZONING
OF THE AREA TO THE EAST YOU'VE
GOT COMMERCIAL SOME PUDI TO THE
SOUTH YOU'VE GOT 894 AND THEN
THE TOWNSHIP TO THE WEST IT'S
OWNED I THINK IT'S OUR FORESE
BUT IT'S FOR MULTIFAMILY AND
THEN TO THE NORTH IT IS SINGLE
FAMILY ZONE.
SO THE JUSTIFICATION FOR
CHANGING TO OFFICE THERE'S
REALLY TWO REASONS.
ONE, THERE HAS BEEN A CHANGE IN
CONDITIONS SO THAT SINGLE
FAMILY THERE IS NO LONGER
REALLY APPROPRIATE AND COUPLED
WITH THAT THE SUSTAINABILITY
ELEMENT OF THE MASTER PLAN
REALLY DOES IT REALLY DOES MEET
THE GOALS OF THAT IN A WAY THAT
WOULD JUSTIFY THE REZONING
OFFICE REGARDING THE CHANGING
CONDITIONS, THE UNIFORM
DEVELOPMENT CODE FIVE POINT
TWENTY NINE POINT TEN POINT A
REFERS TO A CHANGE IN
CONDITIONS.
I'VE ALREADY OUTLINED HOW
THERE'S BEEN JUST A QUITE A BIT
OF CONGESTION AND ACTIVE CITY
PARTICULARLY PARTICULARLY INTO
THE EVENING.
YOU KNOW THAT GAS STATION IS
VERY ACTIVE WHICH WOULD HAVE AN
IMPACT ON YOUR ABILITY TO HAVE
SUCCESSFUL SINGLE FAMILY
RESIDENTIAL THERE AGAIN THE
TRAFFIC ON UNIVERSALIZING ROAD
,YOU KNOW AND AGAIN I NOTED
THE SINGLE FAMILY TO THE NORTH
DOES NOT FACE ON TO ANN ARBOR
SALEEN ROAD NOR DOES IT REALLY
I'M PART OF IT DOES FACE THE
THE WHOLE FOODS BUT THERE'S
BAMMING THERE'S A TREE BUFFER
ALONG THE WAY SO IT REALLY IS
IN A WAY THAT IS NOT IMPACTED
BY THE THE COMMERCIAL
DEVELOPMENT TO THE EXTENT THAT
THESE TWO PARCELS WOULD BE SO
OFFICE USE IS REALLY DESIGNED
TO BE A BUFFER BETWEEN INTENSE
COMMERCIAL USES AND ADJOINING
RESIDENTIAL PURPOSES.
SO THE OFFICE DESIGNATION WOULD
MAKE SENSE.
IT ALLOWS A MIX OF USES, IT
COULD BE OFFICE, IT COULD BE
RESIDENTIAL OR A MIXED USE.
BUT IN THE LONG RUN THE SINGLE
FAMILY RESIDENTIAL IF IT
REMAINED THAT WAY IT WOULD JUST
BE UNDERUTILIZED URBAN LAND THE
SUSTAINABILITY ELEMENT RELATED
TO THE MASTER PLAN, AS IT SAYS,
IS A NEW WAY TO THINK ABOUT THE
MASTER PLAN AND TRYING TO USE
LAND USE IN THE CONTEXT
OF CREATING MORE SUSTAINABLE
DEVELOPMENT PATTERNS, CREATING
LESS POLLUTION AND CREATING A
BETTER INTEGRATION OF LIVING
AND WORKPLACES STRONGER TRANSIT
CORRIDORS AND ENCOURAGING
COMPACT DEVELOPMENT AND THE
OFFICE DESIGNATION WOULD
ADVANCE ALL OF THESE GOALS.
IT WOULD EITHER HAVE GREATER
RESIDENTIAL DENSITY WHICH COULD
DECREASE THE VEHICLE MILES
TRAVELED EVEN IF IT WERE AN
OFFICE TYPE USE THOSE USERS
WOULD BE CLOSER TO THE
RESIDENTIAL AND IT WOULD
ENCOURAGE THE POTENTIAL WORK
LIVE RELATIONSHIP I'M SORRY
JUST ABOUT TWO AND A HALF
MINUTES LEFT.
OK, THANK YOU.
IT'S A TRANSIT CORRIDOR SO
THERE WOULD BE THE POTENTIAL
OF USING THE BUS LINE AND
BASICALLY YOU KNOW, IT IS
REALLY AN OFFICE DESIGNATION
WOULD ENCOURAGE A MORE COMPACT
DEVELOPMENT PATTERN THAT WOULD
BE A BETTER USE OF SCARCE URBAN
LAND.
SO THE OFFICE DESIGNATION WOULD
SEEM TO BE COMPATIBLE WITH THE
SUSTAINABILITY ELEMENT OF THE
MASTER PLAN.
>> WE HELD A CITIZENS
PARTICIPATION MEETING TWO
PEOPLE SHOWED UP.
>> THE QUESTIONS REALLY RELATED
TO WHAT MIGHT HAPPEN IN THE
FUTURE REALLY IF THERE WERE TO
BE A CHANGE IN THE FUTURE THERE
WOULD NEED TO BE A NEW SITE
PLAN.
IT WOULD HAVE TO COMPLY WITH
ALL THE CITY REGULATIONS.
WE WOULD HAVE TO GO THROUGH THE
REGULAR PROCESS AND SO CONCERNS
OF NEIGHBORS WOULD BE ADDRESSED
VIA THE SITE PLAN PROCESS AND
AND SO THAT'S REALLY IT.
>> WE WE THINK THAT THE
REZONING TO OFFICE IS
APPROPRIATE DUE TO THE CHANGING
CONDITIONS AFFECTING THE SITE
AND THAT THE OFFICE DESIGNATION
WOULD BE CONSISTENT WITH THE
SUSTAINABILITY ELEMENTS OF THE
MASTER PLAN.
SO HAPPY TO ANSWER ANY
QUESTIONS.
>> THANKS.
THANK YOU.
AT THIS TIME WE'LL MOVE TO
STAFF PRESENTATION.
>> OK, THANK YOU.
AND I THINK MR MANSELL DID A
VERY NICE JOB OF DESCRIBING
WHAT'S HAPPENING AT THAT SITE
AS FAR AS THE HISTORY IT IS
TWENTY SIX SEVENTY AND TWENTY
SIX NINETY.
THE TWENTY SIX SEVENTY SITE IS
THE NORTHERNMOST SITE WITH THE
EXISTING SIX HUNDRED AND THIRTY
SQUARE FOOT HOME THERE.
IT KIND OF PROMPTED WHEN THE IT
WAS ACTUALLY I THINK THE
HOUSING INSPECTOR WENT OUT
THERE BECAUSE IT PREVIOUSLY WAS
REGISTERED AS A RENTAL AND
THAT'S WHAT KIND OF TRIGGERED A
DOMINO EFFECT OF ALL THIS IS AN
OFFICE NOT A RESIDENTIAL RENTAL
ANY LONGER AND THAT IT GOT
PASSED ALONG TO THE ZONING
CO-ORDINATOR FOR ENFORCEMENT
AND THE TWENTY SIX NINETY SITE
IS JUST TO THE SOUTH AND MAYBE
WE CAN AND I THINK MR MUNJAL
DID A GREAT JOB OF JUST IN THE
NORTHWEST QUADRANT OF NINETY
FOUR THERE AND OBVIOUSLY IN
ROAD HE DESCRIBED ALL OF THE
SURROUNDING USES.
THIS IS A BLOW UP.
THE ONE THING IS THERE'S ABOUT
A THIRTY FIVE HUNDRED SQUARE
FOOT STORAGE STRUCTURE THAT WE
COULD TELL WAS BUILT AROUND THE
NINETEEN EIGHTIES MID EIGHTIES
I THINK FROM THE CITY PERMITS
THAT WERE ISSUED.
YOU KNOW IT'S AN INTERESTING
BUILDING BECAUSE IT DID COME IN
FOR A VARIANCE LIKE A NINETEEN
IN THE NINETEEN NINETY EIGHT I
BELIEVE IN THE STAFF REPORT.
AND WHAT DID THE CBA TO BE USED
AS SOME TYPE OF YOU KNOW,
SELF-STORAGE BUT IT JUST THE
TRAIL ENDED LIKE IT WAS HERE
THAT TABLE NEVER CAME BACK SO
IT'S IT REALLY HAS BEEN USED
FOR SELF STORAGE FOR AT LEAST
FORTY YEARS I THINK AS FAR AS I
CAN TELL FROM FROM THE ARCHIVAL
RESEARCH AGAIN I THINK MR
MANZELLA DESCRIBED THE ZONE IT
IS ONE SEE TO THE NORTH IS ALL
OUR ONE SEE SINGLE FAMILY
RESIDENTIAL BUT TO THE WEST IS
THE APARTMENT COMPLEX ARE FOR A
WHICH IS MULTIFAMILY
RESIDENTIAL ACROSS THE STREET
PUDI RESTAURANTS SERVICE
STATION CONVENIENCE STORES ALSO
SEE ONE B WHICH COMMUNITY
CONVENIENCE ALSO KIND OF A
STRIP MALL THERE SO IT HAS ALSO
DOING A LOT OF RESEARCH SINCE
PROBABLY ABOUT NINETEEN NINETY.
THIS AREA REALLY HAS DEVELOPED
QUITE THAT ESPECIALLY IN THE
PITTSVILLE TOWNSHIP AREA OVER
THERE WITH THE WITH THE MYERS'
AND THE THE RESIDENTIAL THAT'S
BEEN EXPANDED A SURVEY THE
TEACHER DID ASK FOR A WAIVER
OF A SITE AND IT WAS GRANTED BY
OUR PLANNING MANAGER SINCE
THERE IS NOTHING BEING PROPOSED
AT THE SITE AT THIS TIME
ALTHOUGH AS WAS PREVIOUSLY
MENTIONED, IF THERE IS ANY
CHANGES TO THIS SITE IT WILL
REQUIRE A SITE PLAN FOR
PLANNING PERMISSION AT MINIMUM
THAT INCLUDES WHETHER IT'S A
SMALL ADDITION OR PARKING LOT
ADDITION EXPANSION.
IT'LL HAVE TO COME IN.
YOU'LL BE HEARING IT AGAIN IF
THERE'S ANY CHANGES TO THE SITE
AND WE CAN USE THIS SLIDE FOR
ANY FUTURE REFERENCE IF YOU'D
LIKE TAKE A LOOK AT WHAT'S
EXISTING ON SITE.
THIS IS THE VIEW LOOKING
WESTWARD FROM ANN ARBOR SALEEN
ROAD.
SO THIS IS KIND OF IF YOU WERE
LOOKING ACROSS THE STREET FROM
THE SERVICE STATION THAT'S
THERE, THE HOUSE IN QUESTION
THAT'S BEING NOW USED AS AN
OFFICE.
I'LL JUST PUT MY CURSOR OVER IT
AND THEN TO THE SOUTH IT'S
REALLY TOUGH TO GET PICTURES
OVER THERE BECAUSE IT IS
SCREENED BY A LOT
OF LANDSCAPING.
THERE IS A HOUSE I BELIEVE IT'S
VACANT ACTUALLY I DON'T THINK
THERE WAS ANYBODY IN THERE WHEN
I WALKED BACK THERE THAT'S
BEHIND THE TREES IN THAT
STORAGE STRUCTURE IS MORE IN
THE THE THE SOUTHWEST SECTION
OF THE SITE AGAIN LOOKING
NORTHBOUND AS YOU'RE COMING
INTO THE CITY THAT'S THE
SERVICE STATION DRIVE THROUGH
RESTAURANTS SAID YOU KNOW,
BEHIND THAT YOU'LL ALSO SEE THE
STRIP MALL IN THAT AREA AND YOU
COULD JUST SEE THE HOUSE THERE
TO THE LEFT.
>> STEPH DOES RECOMMEND
APPROVAL OF THE REZONING TO
OFFICE FROM THE R1 SEE THE
PETITION ALSO BROUGHT UP
ELEMENTS OF THE MASTER PLAN
OF THE SUSTAINABILITY PLAN.
I WOULD ALSO PROBABLY EMPHASIZE
IT DOES RECOMMEND BACK IN
NINETEEN NINETY SO IT'S MORE
THAN THIRTY YEARS OLD THAT IT
BE ZONED R ONE C AND THAT CAME
FROM THE SOUTH AREA PLAN THAT
WAS INTEGRATED INTO THE MASTER
PLAN YOU KNOW BACK IN BACK TWO
THOUSAND AND SEVEN.
SO THERE'S A LOT OF OTHER
ELEMENTS IN THE MASTER PLAN THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN, THE
SUSTAINABILITY PLAN THAT WOULD
RECOMMEND YOU KNOW THAT THIS
ACTUALLY IS APPROPRIATE FOR THE
OFFICE USE AND STAFF COMMENTS.
THERE WEREN'T A WHOLE LOT
OF CONCERNS BECAUSE THERE ARE
NO CHANGES OUT THERE.
SO IF THIS DOES COME FOR
DEVELOPMENT, IT MAY CHANGE
EVERYTHING AS FAR AS ACCESS TO
TRAFFIC ETC. SO AT THIS TIME
I'M OPEN TO ANY QUESTIONS YOU
MAY HAVE.
>> THANK YOU.
AT THIS TIME WE'LL OPEN THE
PUBLIC HEARING.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK FOR UP TO
THREE MINUTES ABOUT THE
PROPOSED USE.
THE PROPOSED SITE FOR REZONING.
WE WILL FIRST INDIVIDUALS
PRESENT TO ADDRESS THE
COMMISSION, THEN REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK DURING
THIS PUBLIC HEARING REMOTELY
PRESS STAR NINE IF LISTENING BY
PHONE WE USE THE PHRASE HAND
FEATURE IF YOU READ THROUGH THE
WEB LINK FOR PHONE ACCESS CALL
SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT FIVE THREE
FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN AND ENTER
MEETING IDEE NINE SEVEN SEVEN
SIX SIX THREE FOUR ONE TWO TWO
SIX.
CITY STAFF WILL SELECT CALLERS
WHO HAVE RAISED THEIR HAND
USING THE LAST THREE DIGITS
OF YOUR PHONE NUMBER OR BY NAME
IF AVAILABLE FOR THOSE
ACCESSING THROUGH THE WEB LINK
YOU WILL HEAR AN AUTOMATED
ANNOUNCEMENT THAT THE HOST IS
ALLOWING YOU TO SPEAK WHEN
SPEAKING.
PLEASE MEET THE CRITERIA AND
ANY TELEVISION BACKGROUND
SOUNDS.
WE MAY HEAR YOU CLEARLY FOR
EITHER METHOD OF PARTICIPATION
.
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
OF YOUR COMMENTS.
IS THERE ANYONE PRESENT THAT
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
TIME SEEN NO ONE PRESENT.
IS THERE ANYONE THAT WOULD LIKE
TO ADDRESS THE COMMISSION
REMOTELY?
>> THERE ARE NO HANDS RAISED.
ALL RIGHT.
UH, SO CLOSE THE PUBLIC HEARING
AND I'LL READ THE MOTION TAKE
BOTH TOGETHER THE UNIVERSITY
PLANNING COMMISSION HEREBY
RECOMMENDS THAT THE MAYOR AND
CITY COUNCIL APPROVED TWO SIX
SEVEN ZERO TWO SIX NINE ZERO
AND OBVIOUSLY ROAD FOR REZONING
FROM OUR ONE CITY SINGLE FAMILY
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT TO O
OFFICE DISTRICT AND THE
UNIVERSITY PLANNING COMMISSION
HEREBY WAIVES THE AREA PLAN
REQUIREMENT AS NO NEW
CONSTRUCTION IS PROPOSED FOR
THE SITE IN A SURVEY OF THE
EXISTING IMPROVEMENTS ON THE
SITE HAS AND PROVIDED MOVE BY
COMMISSIONER LEE SECONDED BY
FISHER WAGE UH DISCUSSION
OF THE PROPOSED MOTION
COMMISSION WHICH DOES HAVE A
FEW QUESTIONS.
ONE THE AND THIS IS MAINLY FOR
STAFF SO THE THE REZONING IS
GOING TO MAKE THE SITE
NONCONFORMING IN A NUMBER
OF WAYS.
WHAT UM WHAT SHOULD WE THINK
OF THAT?
I'LL START THERE.
OK, SO THERE'S A COUPLE
OF QUESTIONS.
THE FIRST ONE IS THE OFFICE
WOULD BE INTO CONFORMANCE BUT
THE SELF-STORAGE WOULD NOT IT'S
STILL NOT ALLOWED IN THE OFFICE
DISTRICT WE AS STAFF MEET TO
DISCUSS THIS AND DECIDE IT
SINCE IT'S BEEN SELF STORAGE OR
AT FOR PERSONAL STORAGE USE FOR
FORTY YEARS THAT IT'S NOT OK
FOR ME USE
SO WHETHER THE ISSUE
IS IT DOESN'T GET RESOLVED OR
IT DOES GET RESOLVED IT'S A NON
CONFORMING USE FOR FORTY YEARS
AS FAR SETBACKS.
YES IF IT DOES IF THE OFFICE IF
IT DOES GET RETURNED TO OFFICE
THERE ARE A COUPLE OF SIDE
SETBACKS THAT ARE ADJACENT TO
RESIDENTIAL BECAUSE THAT
REQUIRES A 30 FOOT SETBACK IN
IN WHEN IT'S ADJACENT TO
RESIDENTIAL.
SO IT WOULD BE A COUPLE
OF SIDES I THINK IT'S ALSO WHAT
THE READERS ARE GOING TO ME
BECAUSE IT'S THIRTY FEET BUT
THE SIDES MAY NOT NEED BUT
AGAIN WE WOULD ADDRESS THAT
WHEN IT COMES INTO THE SITE
PLANNING STAGE I ASSUME BECAUSE
IT'S ABOUT SEVENTY FIVE PERCENT
OF THESE HOUSES PROBABLY WOULD
GO AWAY AND IF THE THE
ORDINANCE STILL STANDS WE WOULD
HAVE CONFLICTING AND USE
BUFFERS AND THAT 30 FOOT
SETBACK BUT SO YOU'RE SAYING
THAT BECAUSE WE HAVEN'T ENFORCE
THE RULES FOR 40 YEARS IT
DOESN'T MAKE SENSE TO START
NOW?
>> WELL, I WOULDN'T SAY THAT I
THINK WE COULD HAVE A REAL
UPHILL CLIMB BECAUSE THEY'VE
GOT PERMITS FOR ALL OF THIS AT
SOME POINT THE CITIES WE HAVE
ISSUED PERMITS FOR ALL OF THIS
AND THE INSPECTION.
>> SO I THINK WE WOULD HAVE A
VERY DIFFICULT TIME.
>> YOU KNOW, I WOULD LEAVE THAT
UP TO THE ATTORNEYS IF THEY
WANT TO GET INTO BUT WE'VE FOR
THE MOST PART CONDONED IT SO
THEY DO HAVE DOCUMENTATION THAT
THE BUILDING PERMITS AND WHAT
IT'S BEEN USED FOR AND THEN IN
YOUR STAFF REPORT OR SOMEWHERE
IT MENTIONED THERE THE CITIES
AND PARTICIPATION MEETING AND
THAT THE MINUTES WERE ATTACHED.
DID I NOT HAVE A LINK TO THAT?
>> THEY SHOULD BE IF NOT YOU
CAN GO BECAUSE LOOKING AT
WHAT'S IN OUR PACKET THEY'RE
THERE ACTUALLY IS NOT IT IS OUR
AND I WENT INTO THIS AND NONE
OF THESE HAD THEM CLICK ON THIS
SURVEY AND REPORT, OK, BECAUSE
I THINK IT'S ALL ATTACHED.
>> IS IT JUST A VERY SMALL ALL
THE WAY DOWN AND YOU'RE I'M
SORRY YOU'RE GOING TO SEE THE
MINUTES THE SURVEY AND THE
APPLICATION ALTOGETHER SO I
DIDN'T YEAH.
>> I'M SORRY.
IT'S CONFUSING BECAUSE IT'S ALL
WE TIED THEM ALL TOGETHER.
>> OK, SO JUST COMING BACK TO
THE NON CONFORMING STRUCTURE
THE OTHER QUESTION I THINK I
HAD WAS THE ONE DIDN'T WE MAKE
ORDINANCE REVISION CHANGE THAT
ARE PERMITTED SMALL BUSINESSES
AND RESIDENTIAL AND WHY DOESN'T
THIS FIT?
THIS IS NOT THE SAME YOU MAY BE
REFERRING TO LIKE A HOME
OCCUPATION.
SO YOU LIVE THERE AND HAVE YOUR
OFFICE THERE BUT THE APPLICANT
DOES NOT LIVE THERE.
>> THERE IS A NEED FOR IT.
BUT IF THE APPLICANT WERE TO
MOVE IN THEN IT WOULD REMAIN
OUR ONE C IT COULD YEAH IT
COULD BE A HOME OCCUPATION OK
AND AND MY OTHER QUESTION IS
THE WHAT'S THE TRIGGER FOR A
SITE PLAN?
SO COULD THE PETITIONER MAKE
CHANGES AS LONG AS THEY DIDN'T
CHANGE THE FOOTPRINTS OF WHAT
IS ALREADY ON THE SITE IT WOULD
ONCE YOU START IT IT DEPENDS ON
WHAT THEY'RE PROPOSING BECAUSE
THERE'S CERTAIN LEVELS.
IS IT IS IT A SITE PLAN FOR
PLANNING MANAGER THAT MIGHT BE
SOMETHING LIKE OH I JUST OVER
THE BORDER.
YEAH.
I KEEP EVERYTHING IN THE SAME
CONFIGURATION BUT NOW I CAN GO
UP TO FIFTY FIVE FEET BECAUSE
IT'S THE SITE RESULT SO THAT
BECAUSE OF THE FOUR AREA
OF RAISING THE HEIGHT OR AREA
TO MAKE SURE THAT EVERY
APPLICANT WERE TO COME IN AND
LET'S SAY THEY WANT TO FIX
THEIR PLUMBING INTERIOR
RENOVATIONS THEY PULL THE
PROPER TRADE PERMIT THAT'S NOT
GOING TO TRIGGER ANY TYPE
OF SITE PLAN BUT ANY TYPE
OF PARKING LOT EXPANSION
INCREASE IN FLOOR AREA THAT
WOULD THEN WE'D HAVE TO LOOK AT
IS A SITE PLANNING FOR PLANNING
MANAGER IS A SITE FOR PLANNING
COMMISSION.
I DOUBT THE REZONING HAS GOT TO
GO TO A CITY COUNCIL FOR
APPROVAL BUT THE SITE PROBABLY
DOES IT BUT IT ALL DEPENDS ON
WHAT'S BEING PROPOSED.
>> OK, I THOSE ARE MY OPTIONS
FOR THE COMMISSIONER BUT I'M
JUST THIS IS I'M REALLY ASKING
THIS BECAUSE I FEEL LIKE I MUST
BE MISREADING SOMETHING.
THIS IS NOT A I'M NOT RAISING
AN ISSUE BUT I TOO BECAME
OBSESSED WITH THE NON
CONFORMITY AND SO I'M LOOKING
AT AND LOOKING AT THE SIDES AND
YOU HAVE TWO ASTERISKS FOR THE
TWENTY SIX SEVENTY BUILDING FOR
THE TWENTY POINT SEVEN FOR EAST
SIDE WHICH MAKES SENSE BECAUSE
THAT'S SUPPOSED TO BE 30 FOOT
MINIMUM BUT THE SEVENTY FIVE
FOOT WEST SIDE ALSO HAS TWO
ASTERISKS AND I CAN'T FIGURE
OUT WHY THAT WOULD BE.
>> I WAS HOPING YOU WOULDN'T
CATCH THAT IS WILL BE THAT WILL
BE CORRECTED BEFORE THAT THE
CITY COUNCIL IF YOU COULD SEE I
HIGHLIGHTED THE LITTLE ASTERISK
DOWN THERE WITH THAT BACK SO IT
WILL BE CORRECTED OR CORRECT.
YOU'RE NOT SEEING THINGS OK?
I JUST WAS LIKE OK DO I NOT AM
I READING THE WRONG COLUMN?
OK, GOOD.
AND THEN IT'S JUST THE TWENTY
SIX NINETY THEN IS REALLY QUITE
A BIT CLOSER THAN IT SHOULD BE
TO A RESIDENTIAL YES.
YES BUT TWENTY SIX NINE DAYS
FOR PERSONAL STORAGE AREAS.
YEAH.
SO IT DOESN'T MAKE ANY NOISE IT
DOESN'T HAVE PARTIES YEAH.
>> THERE FOR FORTY YEARS AND I
DON'T BELIEVE ANY COMPLAINTS ON
THAT SO ANY COMMERCIALLY BUT
BUT IN THEORY IF IT IS ZONED
OFFICE NOT SAY THAT THIS IS
GOING TO OCCUR BUT IN THEORY A
HOTEL OR A SHORT TERM RENTAL IS
A PERMITTED USE WITHIN THE
OFFICE DISTRICT.
>> SO IN THEORY IF YOU WANTED
TO CONVERT THE CURRENT EXISTING
STORAGE INTO A SHORT TERM
RENTAL THAT WOULD THEN BE A
PERMITTED USE.
I'M JUST ASKING.
YES, BUT JUST REMEMBER IT'S
STILL AN APARTMENT BUILDING AND
HOUSING CODES.
THEY WOULD HAVE TO COME IN
THERE AND REGISTER IT.
IT'S GOING PROBABLY HAVE TO
HAVE UPGRADES TO IT BECAUSE
IT'S AN OFFICE USE RIGHT NOW.
>> SO YOU KNOW, I DON'T KNOW
WHAT THE HOUSING AND BUILDING
CODES ARE BUT IT WOULD HAVE TO
COME IN FOR REVIEW AND APPROVAL
AND IT'S A CONDITION IF THIS
DOES GET APPROVAL WE'RE GOING
TO NEED NEW CERTIFICATE
OF OCCUPANCY.
SO THEY'RE STILL GOING TO GO IN
AND LOOK AT THIS TO MAKE SURE
THAT A CERTIFIED GOTCHA I'M
JUST TRYING TO LOOK AT AGAIN
ALL POSSIBILITIES.
>> I'M CONTEXTUALLY SPEAKING I
THINK THE PETITIONER DID A
GREAT JOB OF WE JUST TALKED
ABOUT THE CONDITIONS AND
CRITERIA WHICH REZONING MAKES
SENSE.
>> JUST TRY TO THINK ABOUT WHAT
ARE ALL THE POSSIBILITIES THAT
YOU KNOW THAT COULD HAPPEN.
>> AND SO THE HOTEL PERMITTED
USE WAS JUST ONE THAT
CONTEXTUALLY TO ME ON THIS
PARTICULAR INTERSECTION, YOU
KNOW, I THINK ABOUT CLEANING
COMPANY WHAT ARE THE QUESTIONS
I HAD WAS JUST TYPE OF PRODUCTS
THAT YOU MIGHT USE THAT MAY
HAVE AN ADVERSE IMPACT.
YOU KNOW, THAT BEING SAID,
THERE'S A GASTEYER ACROSS THE
STREET, RIGHT?
SO I MEAN AGAIN BUT THAT BEING
SAID, THE GAS STATION STILL HAS
REASONABLE PROXIMITY.
>> A LOT OF THE WATER WATER
TABLES ARE GENERALLY GOING FROM
NORTH TO SOUTH, WEST TO EAST.
>> SO I KIND OF TAKE A LOOK AT
THIS AND I OBVIOUSLY NEED TO
LOOK AT THE ACTUAL WHERE THE
ACTUAL DETENTION FROM THE SITE
IS REALLY KIND OF GOING.
>> BUT AGAIN, I ASK JUST THE
INTENSITY OF KIND OF PRODUCTS
BEING USED.
JUST ALL OF OUR PRODUCTS ARE
DROPSHIP DIRECTLY TO THE SITE.
I'D I CAN SAY WE DON'T HAVE
SOME PRODUCTS ON SITE.
NONE OF THEM GO IN THE DRAINS.
THEY'RE THERE TO BE STORED
TAKEN TO SITE.
YEAH.
BESIDES MAYBE CLEANING A LITTLE
BIT OURSELVES.
>> RIGHT.
RIGHT.
IT'S MINIMAL.
SO MOSTLY THE CURRENT PRIMARY
USE IS ADMINISTRATIVE DISPATCH
AND SOMETHING ALONG THOSE
LINES.
THAT'S WHY I WAS THERE AT THE
OFFICE.
I THOUGHT WE COMPLIED WITH
HOMEBASE BECAUSE WE DON'T HAVE
TO VISITORS YOU KNOW
EVERYTHING'S OK.
THAT'S WHY WE'RE KIND OF TAKEN
ABACK.
WE DIDN'T UNDERSTAND OBVIOUSLY
INCORRECT CORRECTED SHOULD I OR
SOMETHING LIKE THAT.
YEAH, BUT WE DIDN'T THAT WE HAD
TO LIVE THERE TO DO IT SO BUT
YEAH THERE'S NO CHEMICALS OR
ANYTHING ELSE TO USE AND THE
TRAFFIC IS VERY LOW IT'S YEAH.
SOME DAYS JUST ME.
>> YEAH GOT IT.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU FOR THE CLARIFICATION
AGAIN CONTEXTUALLY SPEAKING
IT'S AN INTERSECTION OF HIGHWAY
SO I TEND TO AGREE WITH STATS
ASSESSMENT NOW THE CHALLENGE
FOR ME IS THAT THE MASTER
OF THE COMPREHENSIVE PLANS LAND
USE ELEMENT DOES SPECIFY THIS
IS A SINGLE FAMILY DETACHED BUT
AGAIN THE CHANGING CONDITIONS
IS REALLY WHAT THE PETITIONER
SIGHTING AT.
>> SO AND THEN NOW AGAIN THE
CHALLENGES THERE'S A NEW PLAN
UNDERWAY BUT THAT'S LIKE
EIGHTEEN MONTHS.
>> I MEAN YOU HAVE AN ACTIVE
BUSINESS SO I OF AGAIN ACTUALLY
MAKES SENSE.
I'M NOT AGAIN SO THAT TO ME THE
MOST KIND OF CONCERNING ELEMENT
WOULD BE THE THE WIDE ARRAY
OF PERMITTED USES THAT THIS
COULD BE CONVERTED TO IN THE
EVENT THAT THIS PASSES.
THAT BEING SAID CONTEXTUALLY
THIS MAKES SENSE TO ME SO
THAT'S KIND OF WHERE I STAND.
>> I'D LOVE TO HEAR OTHER
PEOPLE'S THOUGHTS REVEALS WHEN
I ORIGINALLY SAW THIS ON THE
AGENDA FOR TONIGHT AND BEFORE I
LOOKED AT I WAS LIKE MOVING
FROM A RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT TO
AN OFFICE DISTRICT.
IT SOUNDS LIKE AN INTERESTING
MOVE.
I THINK I UNDERSTAND WHY AND AS
THE PETITIONER NOTED AND I
PULLED UP THE STABLE RIGHT
SINGLE FAMILY IS ALLOWED HERE
AS IS ALL THE OTHER KINDS
OF RESIDENTIAL USES.
SO I DON'T THINK IT'S
NECESSARILY MOVING US AWAY FROM
RESIDENTIAL USES BUT THAT'S
SOMETHING THAT I HAD TO
INTERNALIZE MYSELF.
I THINK THAT THE
I UNDERSTAND I
APPRECIATE GEOFF'S
RECOMMENDATION HERE AND I MEAN
IF I DON'T KNOW WHAT THE THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN WOULD TURN
UP AND ACTUALLY WHETHER IT'S
GOING TO GO THROUGH THAT LEVEL
SPECIFICITY I DON'T KNOW HOW
MUCH DETAIL IT'S GOING TO GET
IN HERE JUST LOOKING AT IT.
>> I MEAN THE I WAS SURPRISED
HONESTLY THAT IT WASN'T A
COMMERCIAL APPLICATION.
BUT THEN I ALSO UNDERSTAND LIKE
THE CONVERSATION THAT WOULD
NEED TO HAPPEN
IN THAT AREA
JUST GIVE IT ITS LOCATION.
IT SPEAKS TO LIKE
INTENSIFICATION OF USE MAKES A
LOT OF SENSE AND THINKING ABOUT
YOU KNOW, THAT IS A MAJOR
CORRIDOR IN THE CITY AND SO
HIGHER AND BETTER USES FOR THIS
PROPERTY MAKES A WHOLE LOT
OF SENSE.
I THINK ACTUALLY UNDER
CLASSIFICATION THERE'S NOT AS
MUCH OF A RISK OF LIKE VERY
QUICK REDEVELOPMENT.
I THINK MAYBE MAYBE IF IT WERE
SOMETHING ELSE THAT THERE MIGHT
BE QUICKER DEVELOPMENT AND
THAT'S NOT THE INTENTION HERE.
SO IN SOME WAYS THAT GIVES ME
MORE COMFORT IN THINKING
THINKING THAT THROUGH THIS IS
LIKE A TEMPORARY USE AND NOT
HINDERING IF SOMEONE DOES WANT
TO LIVE THERE THAT DEVELOPMENT
AND ACTUALLY HAVING DUPLEXES
LIKE THIS BECAME DUPLEXES,
THAT'S TOTALLY POSSIBLE TOO.
SO UM, ALL THAT IS LONG
RAMBLING WAY OF SAYING I'M ALSO
IN SUPPORT OF THIS.
I THINK IT MAKES I THINK IT
MAKES SENSE FOR ALL OF THE
REASONS THAT COMMISSIONER LEE
SAID AS WELL.
>> COMMISSIONER LEE, THANK YOU
.
ONE OF THE INTERESTING THINGS I
THOUGHT WAS YOU KNOW, I DON'T
WANT NECESSARILY JUST WHEN YOU
LOOK AT THE LAND IT'S
COMMERCIAL AS OPPOSED TO IT'S
RED ON THE MAP AND SO IT'S LIKE
YOU JUST HAVE THIS ONE LITTLE
BLIP OF RED KIND OF ON THE
CORNER.
SO IT'S LIKE A PART OF ME IS
LIKE DOES THAT STRETCH NEED TO
BE KIND OF ZONED TO OFFICER OR
SOMETHING THAT ALLOWS MORE?
>> DOES THIS FIT IN?
I'M JUST LITERALLY PULLING DOES
IT LOOK LIKE ONE?
I DON'T KNOW.
I'M JUST THROWING THOSE IDEAS
OUT THERE AS OF RIGHT NOW
ACTIONABILITY TO ME.
>> I MEAN IT DOES MAKE SENSE
SIMPLY BECAUSE RIGHT ACROSS THE
STREET IT IS COMMERCIAL.
THE EXTENSION THERE OF STILL
CONTEXTUALLY MAKES SENSE.
I JUST WANTED TO RESPOND TO
COMMISSIONER MILLS COMMENT THAT
YEAH, RESIDENTIAL STILL CAN BE
USED AND THE PROTECTIONS ARE
STILL IN PLACE IN THE EVENT
THAT THIS TURNS INTO A
PARTITION OR TRIES TO TURN THIS
INTO A SHORT TERM RENTAL OR
HOTEL USE ON THAT WOULD HAVE TO
STILL GO THROUGH THE PROPER
PERMITTING PROCESS INSPECTIONS
ET SO TO BY THOSE VIRTUES THE
THING THAT I WOULD ACTUALLY SAY
IS LIKE WAS SHOULD WE TELL THE
REST OF THE CORRIDOR ALMOST.
BUT THAT'S THAT'S THAT'S A
DIFFERENT CONVERSATION
ALTOGETHER BUT OVERALL TO ME
ACTUALLY MAKES SENSE.
>> THANKS.
>> ANY FURTHER COMMENTS MAYBE
I'LL JUST ADD AND THIS IS
EXPERIENCE WITH OTHER PROJECTS
MAYBE PULLING PLAY IN THE WORST
CASE SCENARIO OR ALTERNATIVE
SCENARIO?
I DON'T THINK IT'S THE WORST
CASE SCENARIO THAT SHED COULD
TURN INTO BANQUET HALL WHICH WE
JUST KIND OF WENT THROUGH
ORDINANCE CHANGES FOR
INTERNALLY AND THAT WOULD THAT
MAY NOT REQUIRE A SITE PLAN
REVIEW BUT BECAUSE IT COULD
INCREASE THE INTENSITY OF USE
WHAT TYPICALLY TRIGGERS THAT IS
A PARKING COUNT AND WE DON'T
HAVE PARKING CODES ANYMORE BUT
I DO THINK THAT STAFF HAS
DISCRETION TO MEASURE THE
INTENSITY OF USE
OF NONCONFORMING BUILDINGS WHEN
THEY CHANGE A USE AND SO IF
THERE WAS A CONDITION WHERE THE
PETITIONER CAME BACK, TRIED TO
PULL THE BUILDING PERMIT FOR A
BANQUET HALL IN THAT SHED AND
IT STILL HAS TO GO THROUGH
ZONING COMPLIANCE REVIEW THAT
HIGHER INTENSITY USE WITHIN A
NON CONFORMING STRUCTURE WOULD
PROBABLY TRIGGER STAFF TO SAY
YOU NEED TO YOU CANNOT BE MORE
NONCONFORMING EVEN THOUGH IT'S
AN EXISTING PHYSICAL
NONCONFORMING THING.
>> THE USE WOULD BE MORE
NONCONFORMING RELATIVE TO ITS
INTENSITY.
SO THAT'S KIND OF THE SCENARIO
THAT I PLAY OUT AND WHAT I'VE
UNDERSTOOD AND EXPERIENCED WITH
STAFF KIND OF MEASURING THE
EVALUATION, THE PROCESS THAT IT
MIGHT GO THROUGH.
>> AND SO I UNDERSTAND THAT
STAFF WOULD ALSO REALIZE THIS
AND AND REQUEST THAT IT GO FOR
EITHER PLAY MANAGER REVIEW OR
TO THE PLANNING COMMISSION TO
UNDERSTAND THAT KIND OF HIGHER
INTENSITY CHANGE VIEWS.
>> SO I'M JUST HE WAS ASKING
WHAT KIND OF SCENARIOS WHEN WE
LOOK AT AND THAT'S KIND OF ONE
I WOULD UNDERSTAND BUT I DON'T
HAVE CONCERNS ABOUT RELATIVE TO
DIFFERENT WAYS SITES ARE
EVALUATED DURING THE PERMITTING
PROCESS.
>> COMMISSIONER, JUST TO
UNDERLINE I THINK IT'S ACTUALLY
NOT EVEN DISCRETIONARY IN THE
UDC FIVE THREE TWO POINT ONE
NONCONFORMING USE SAYS THAT IT
SHALL NOT BE EXPANDED OR
INCREASED IN INTENSITY OF USE.
SO IT'S IN THERE VERY QUICKLY.
SO I DON'T THINK ANYONE SHOULD
HOLD ON ANY WORRY ABOUT THAT
FURTHER DISCUSSION.
ALL RIGHT.
I'LL OUR STAFF TO TAKE A ROLL
CALL VOTE
ON THE FIRST MOTION
TO RECOMMEND TO MAYOR AND CITY
COUNCIL TO APPROVE TWENTY SIX
SEVENTY AND TWENTY NINETY IN
OUR BUSTLINE ROAD REZONING FROM
R1 C TO O OFFICE DISTRICT
COMMISSIONER SELBY YES.
>> COMMISSIONER EVANS YES.
MR HAMMARSTEDT YES.
SMARTISH YES.
ESPECIALLY YES.
>> MR CLARKE YES.
MR MILLS YES.
COMMISSIONER CRENSHAW'S YES.
>> THAT MOTION CARRIES ON THE
SECOND MOTION TO WAIVE THE AREA
PLAN REQUIREMENT AS NO NEW
CONSTRUCTION IS PROPOSED FOR
THE SITE IN A SURVEY
OF EXISTING IMPROVEMENTS ON
SITE HAS BEEN PROVIDED.
>> COMMISSIONER SELBY.
YES COMMISSIONER EVANS.
YES.
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT.
CUSTOMER REDISH YES.
YES.
SURELY YES.
CUSTOMER REDISH YES.
YES.
SURELY YES.
MR CLARKE.
YES.
COMMISSIONER MILLS.
COMMISSIONER.
YES.
RIGHT YES.
COMMISSIONER.
THAT MOTION ALSO CARRIES THANK
RIGHT YES.
YOU.
THAT MOTION ALSO CARRIES THANK
>> THANK YOU.
YOU.
THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
AT THIS TIME WE MOVE TO PUBLIC
THANK YOU.
COMMENT.
AT THIS TIME WE MOVE TO PUBLIC
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
COMMENT.
PERSONS TO SPEAK FOR UP TO
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
THREE MINUTES ABOUT ANY ISSUE
PERSONS TO SPEAK FOR UP TO
AS THE PUBLIC ENEMY AND AGENDA
THREE MINUTES ABOUT ANY ISSUE
ITEM OR NOT, WE WILL FIRST CALL
AS THE PUBLIC ENEMY AND AGENDA
ON INDIVIDUALS PRESENT TO
ITEM OR NOT, WE WILL FIRST CALL
ADDRESS THE COMMISSION AND THEN
ON INDIVIDUALS PRESENT TO
REMOTE PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK
ADDRESS THE COMMISSION AND THEN
DURING THIS PUBLIC HEARING
REMOTE PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK
REMOTELY PRESSED OUR NINE A.M.
DURING THIS PUBLIC HEARING
BY PHONE OR USE OF HAND FEATURE
REMOTELY PRESSED OUR NINE A.M.
VIEWING THROUGH THE BLOOD LINK
BY PHONE OR USE OF HAND FEATURE
FOR PHONE ACCESS CALL 877 EIGHT
VIEWING THROUGH THE BLOOD LINK
FIVE THREE FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN
FOR PHONE ACCESS CALL 877 EIGHT
AND ENTER A MEETING ID NINE
FIVE THREE FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN
SEVEN SEVEN SIX SIX THREE FOUR
AND ENTER A MEETING ID NINE
ONE TWO TWO SIX.
SEVEN SEVEN SIX SIX THREE FOUR
CITY STAFF WILL SELECT CALLERS
ONE TWO TWO SIX.
AS THEY HAVE RAISED THEIR HAND
CITY STAFF WILL SELECT CALLERS
USING THE LAST THREE DIGITS
AS THEY HAVE RAISED THEIR HAND
OF YOUR PHONE NUMBER OR BY NAME
USING THE LAST THREE DIGITS
IF AVAILABLE FOR THOSE
OF YOUR PHONE NUMBER OR BY NAME
ACCESSING THROUGH THE WEB LINK
IF AVAILABLE FOR THOSE
YOU WILL HEAR AN AUTOMATED
ACCESSING THROUGH THE WEB LINK
ANNOUNCEMENT THE POST IS
YOU WILL HEAR AN AUTOMATED
ALLOWING YOU TO SPEAK WHEN
ANNOUNCEMENT THE POST IS
SPEAKING PLEASE MOVE REQUIRING
ALLOWING YOU TO SPEAK WHEN
A MUTE ANY TELEVISION OR
SPEAKING PLEASE MOVE REQUIRING
BACKGROUND SOUNDS WE HEAR YOU
A MUTE ANY TELEVISION OR
CLEARLY FOR EITHER METHOD
BACKGROUND SOUNDS WE HEAR YOU
OF PARTICIPATION.
CLEARLY FOR EITHER METHOD
>> PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
OF PARTICIPATION.
ADDRESS THE BEGINNING OF YOUR
>> PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
COMMENTS THERE ANYWAY.
ADDRESS THE BEGINNING OF YOUR
SEE NO ONE IN THE CHAMBERS ARE
COMMENTS THERE ANYWAY.
LOOKING TO SPEAK.
SEE NO ONE IN THE CHAMBERS ARE
>> IS THERE ANYONE WHO WOULD
LOOKING TO SPEAK.
LIKE TO ADDRESS THE COMMISSION
>> IS THERE ANYONE WHO WOULD
REMOTELY MAKES CLEAR THERE ARE
LIKE TO ADDRESS THE COMMISSION
NO HANDS RAISED ALL RIGHT AT
REMOTELY MAKES CLEAR THERE ARE
THIS TIME I'LL CLOSE THE PUBLIC
NO HANDS RAISED ALL RIGHT AT
HEARING AND MOVE ON TO THE
THIS TIME I'LL CLOSE THE PUBLIC
COMMISSION PROPOSED BUSINESS IS
HEARING AND MOVE ON TO THE
THERE ANY COMMISSION PROPOSED
COMMISSION PROPOSED BUSINESS IS
BUSINESS COMMISSIONER WISCH SO
THERE ANY COMMISSION PROPOSED
I JUST WANTED TO DRAW ATTENTION
BUSINESS COMMISSIONER WISCH SO
TO THE MEMO THAT WE RECEIVED
I JUST WANTED TO DRAW ATTENTION
FROM PLANNING MANAGER MR.
TO THE MEMO THAT WE RECEIVED
LONARD AND I WONDER HOW WE
FROM PLANNING MANAGER MR.
COULD FACILITATE A CONVERSATION
LONARD AND I WONDER HOW WE
WHETHER IT'S AT THE TABLE OR IN
COULD FACILITATE A CONVERSATION
ANOTHER SPACE.
WHETHER IT'S AT THE TABLE OR IN
>> I THINK WE MIGHT HAVE A
ANOTHER SPACE.
RETREAT BEING PLANNED AT SOME
>> I THINK WE MIGHT HAVE A
POINT SO IT MIGHT BE A TOPIC
RETREAT BEING PLANNED AT SOME
FOR THAT AGENDA AS OPPOSED TO
POINT SO IT MIGHT BE A TOPIC
TONIGHT.
FOR THAT AGENDA AS OPPOSED TO
BUT MORE CONVERSATION HERE SO
TONIGHT.
AND JUST TO GIVE PEOPLE SOME
BUT MORE CONVERSATION HERE SO
THINKING POINTS AT LEAST IN MY
AND JUST TO GIVE PEOPLE SOME
MIND AS WE MIGHT REDUCE THAT AS
THINKING POINTS AT LEAST IN MY
CITY COUNCIL TO REDUCE OUR SIZE
MIND AS WE MIGHT REDUCE THAT AS
FROM NINE TO SEVEN AND THEN USE
CITY COUNCIL TO REDUCE OUR SIZE
THE REDUCTION TO CREATE TWO
FROM NINE TO SEVEN AND THEN USE
ALTERNATES SO THE COMPOSITION
THE REDUCTION TO CREATE TWO
LIKE THE FOLKS WHO ARE
ALTERNATES SO THE COMPOSITION
APPOINTED WOULD STAY BUT IT
LIKE THE FOLKS WHO ARE
WOULD JUST CHANGE THE
APPOINTED WOULD STAY BUT IT
COMPOSITION BECAUSE IT DOESN'T
WOULD JUST CHANGE THE
APPEAR THAT THERE WOULD BE A
COMPOSITION BECAUSE IT DOESN'T
WAY TO DO THE ALTERNATES.
APPEAR THAT THERE WOULD BE A
>> AND WITH SO MANY OF YOU
WAY TO DO THE ALTERNATES.
BEING ACTIVE IN THE DEVELOPMENT
>> AND WITH SO MANY OF YOU
COMMUNITY IN ONE WAY OR ANOTHER
BEING ACTIVE IN THE DEVELOPMENT
RECUSALS ARE HAPPENING A LOT
COMMUNITY IN ONE WAY OR ANOTHER
AND I THINK I'VE BEEN ON FOR
RECUSALS ARE HAPPENING A LOT
TWO YEARS AND I FEEL LIKE IN
AND I THINK I'VE BEEN ON FOR
THE LAST SIX MONTHS WE'VE HAD
TWO YEARS AND I FEEL LIKE IN
MORE RECUSALS THAN WE HAD IN
THE LAST SIX MONTHS WE'VE HAD
THE PREVIOUS EIGHTEEN MONTHS.
MORE RECUSALS THAN WE HAD IN
AND SO HOW DO WE ADDRESS THAT
THE PREVIOUS EIGHTEEN MONTHS.
BECAUSE THAT DOES DO I THINK IT
AND SO HOW DO WE ADDRESS THAT
CREATES A LOT OF HARM TO
BECAUSE THAT DOES DO I THINK IT
PETITIONERS BECAUSE THEY COME
CREATES A LOT OF HARM TO
EXPECTING A FULL COMMITTEE TO
PETITIONERS BECAUSE THEY COME
HEAR AND THEN THERE ISN'T AND
EXPECTING A FULL COMMITTEE TO
AND SO THEN THAT PUTS PRESSURE
HEAR AND THEN THERE ISN'T AND
ON YOU TO BE HERE OR TO FIGURE
AND SO THEN THAT PUTS PRESSURE
ALL OF THIS OUT.
ON YOU TO BE HERE OR TO FIGURE
SO SO HOW DO WE SORT OF ADDRESS
ALL OF THIS OUT.
THAT BECAUSE WE WANT YOUR
SO SO HOW DO WE SORT OF ADDRESS
EXPERTIZE AT THE TABLE BUT THEN
THAT BECAUSE WE WANT YOUR
YOUR EXPERTIZE OFTEN CREATES
EXPERTIZE AT THE TABLE BUT THEN
CONFLICTS HERE AND SO THEN YOU
YOUR EXPERTIZE OFTEN CREATES
HAVE TO LEAVE THE TABLE AND
CONFLICTS HERE AND SO THEN YOU
THEN WE HAVE TO SEND DENIAL'S
HAVE TO LEAVE THE TABLE AND
TECHNICAL DENIAL'S TO CITY
THEN WE HAVE TO SEND DENIAL'S
COUNCIL.
TECHNICAL DENIAL'S TO CITY
>> SO I WOULD JUST LOVE TO
COUNCIL.
FIGURE OUT LIKE DO WE HAVE THAT
>> SO I WOULD JUST LOVE TO
CONVERSATION AT THE TABLE
FIGURE OUT LIKE DO WE HAVE THAT
DURING A CONVERSATION LIKE
CONVERSATION AT THE TABLE
THIS?
DURING A CONVERSATION LIKE
IS THIS SOMETHING THAT WE
THIS?
PROPOSE FOR A RETREAT
IS THIS SOMETHING THAT WE
CONVERSATION?
PROPOSE FOR A RETREAT
DO WE ASK OUR CITY COUNCIL
CONVERSATION?
PERSON TO ADVOCATE LIKE HOW DO
DO WE ASK OUR CITY COUNCIL
WE GO FORWARD?
PERSON TO ADVOCATE LIKE HOW DO
SO CAN I JUST ASK WOULD THIS BE
WE GO FORWARD?
SOMETHING WE'RE TALKING ABOUT
SO CAN I JUST ASK WOULD THIS BE
CITY TRANSPORTATION WITH THE
SOMETHING WE'RE TALKING ABOUT
ABC AND OR OUR CITY MEETING?
CITY TRANSPORTATION WITH THE
WILL THIS BE SOMETHING THAT
ABC AND OR OUR CITY MEETING?
COULD ROLL INTO THAT AGENDA
WILL THIS BE SOMETHING THAT
FIRST TO OR MAYBE STAFF OR
COULD ROLL INTO THAT AGENDA
COMMISSION PROPOSE BUSINESS TO
FIRST TO OR MAYBE STAFF OR
ADD TO THE EXECUTIVE
COMMISSION PROPOSE BUSINESS TO
COMMITTEE'S NEXT MEETING
ADD TO THE EXECUTIVE
PLANNING THEIR RETREAT?
COMMITTEE'S NEXT MEETING
>> I THINK THERE ARE A LOT
PLANNING THEIR RETREAT?
OF APPROPRIATE AVENUES THAT
>> I THINK THERE ARE A LOT
THIS COULD BE BROUGHT UP.
OF APPROPRIATE AVENUES THAT
MY RECOMMENDATION WOULD BE TO
DISCUSS IN A FORUM WHERE ALL
OF THE PLANNING IS PRESENT
BECAUSE IN ORDER TO UH KIND
OF UH REQUEST VIA A UM A
RESOLUTION OR A MEMO OR ANY
OTHER TYPE OF COMMUNICATION TO
COUNCIL TO MAKE A CHANGE YOU'LL
WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT THAT
REQUEST REFLECTS THE MAJORITY
OF THIS BODY SO YOU COULD PUT
IT ON AN AGENDA FOR A WORKING
SESSION, TRY TO REACH A
CONSENSUS AND THEN AT A REGULAR
SESSION, UM, IF THERE IS A
CONSENSUS REACH A VOTE TO MOVE
FORWARD SOME TYPE
OF COMMUNICATION TO CITY
COUNCIL BECAUSE OF COURSE IT IS
THERE IT IS NOT WITHIN THE UDC
OR THE PURVIEW OF THE PLANNING
COMMISSION WORKSHOP THE EXACT
CHANGES ALTHOUGH YOU COULD MAKE
SOME SUGGESTIONS FOR WHAT YOU
WOULD LIKE AFTER YOU COME TO
AGREEMENT.
>> OK, SO I'LL JUST I SEE
COUNCIL MEMBER DISHES.
>> DO YOU WANT TO ADD TO KNOW I
JUST WANTED ASK SO UM SO WHAT
YOU'VE SUGGESTED OR WHAT
COMMISSIONER WHICH HAS
SUGGESTED SOUNDS COMPLICATED
WHEREAS THERE IS A SUGGESTION
ON THIS PAGE THAT WE REDUCE UM
WE COULD REDUCE OUR STANDARD
FOR ENACTING A LAND USE
DECISION TO THE MAJORITY OF THE
MEMBERS PRESENT WHICH SEEMS
EASIER.
SO I WILL JUST SAY TO PLANNING
MANAGER KELI'S POINT TO THIS IS
A TIME FOR COMMISSION PROPOSED
BUSINESS TO MAKE THIS A
BUSINESS ITEM FOR FUTURE RATHER
THAN WORKSHOPPING DETAILS AT
THIS TIME.
>> RIGHT.
AND WE CAN JUST REQUEST COULD I
REQUEST A BRIEFING THOUGH FROM
STAFF ON WHAT WOULD BE THE
IMPLICATIONS?
YEAH, MAN I'M DOING THIS
ALTERNATIVE.
>> I WOULD I WOULD LIKE TO HEAR
FROM THEM THE PROS AND CONS
OF THE OF THE ALTERNATIVE THING
HERE WE CAN CERTAINLY FIND A
TIME IN AN UPCOMING WORKING
SESSION TO DISCUSS AND CONSIDER
WHAT WHAT CHANGES MIGHT
ACCOMMODATE, UH, THE UM THE
MODIFICATIONS THAT WOULD ALLOW
FOR A VOTE.
HOWEVER, I I DON'T THINK THAT
LOWERING THE NUMBER OF VOTES
REQUIRED FOR APPROVAL WOULD
NECESSARY BRING MORE VOICES TO
THE TABLE SO IT DOESN'T IT
DOESN'T MAKE UP FOR THE THE
RECUSALS AND YES, WE WE CAN
DISCUSS THIS FURTHER BUT I
THINK THAT IT IS PERHAPS WORTH
CONSIDERING WITH NUANCE.
>> YEAH.
THANK YOU
.
FIST BUMP ANYTHING THAT'S ON
THE WORK PLAN I JUST DIDN'T
WANT THIS TO BE THE FINAL WORD
SO THAT THAT WAS WHAT I WAS
REALLY SAYING.
SO IF WE'RE TRYING TO FIND
WHERE WE PUT THIS WE PUT IT
ONTO THE WORK PLAN AND THEN WE
MOVE IT UP BECAUSE IF WE GET
SOMETHING DONE AND IT'S LIKE
LOOK WE HAVE A MEETING THAT WE
DON'T HAVE ANYTHING SCHEDULED
FOR THIS IS THE THING WE TALK
ABOUT AT THAT MEETING AS
OPPOSED NOT HAVING THAT MEETING
AND THEN IT SORT OF GETS
DISCUSSED AND GOES AWAY.
BUT I'M NOT SUGGESTING THAT WE
BUMP OUR WORK PLAN TO DO THIS.
I JUST RECOGNIZE THAT WE'RE
ALREADY DOWN A COMMISSIONER AND
WITH SOME OF WHAT'S COMING
THERE'S THE POTENTIAL FOR THERE
TO BE MORE RECUSALS AND SO THEN
THAT'S GOING TO IMPACT
PETITIONERS AND I JUST DON'T
KNOW WHAT THE HORIZON OF THAT
LOOKS LIKE.
SO THAT'S WHY I WANT TO RAISE
IT DURING THIS PERIOD.
>> I APPRECIATE THAT AND I
THINK RELATIVE TO OUR WORK PLAN
WHAT WE'VE SEEN IS THINGS THAT
ARE EASIER FOR STAFF TO PREPARE
LIKE MEMBERS ALREADY WE MAY SEE
COME AHEAD OF OTHER THINGS THAT
ARE ACTUALLY ON OUR WORK PLAN
BECAUSE OF GAPS IN OUR
SCHEDULING TIME.
>> UM, ANY OTHER COMMISSION
PROPOSED BUSINESS AT THIS TIME
?
>> NO.
WITH THAT WE'LL MOVE ON TO AN
ADJOURNMENT.
WE HAVE SOMEONE TO MOVE
COMMISSIONER WAGE AND SECONDED
BY COMMISSIONER MILLS ALL THOSE
IN FAVOR SAY AY AY AND WE ARE
ADJOURNED